Ecart Design Announce something here Cycle through multiple messages Language English français English Currency France (EUR €) Austria (EUR €) Belgium (EUR €) Bulgaria (EUR €) Croatia (EUR €) Cyprus (EUR €) Czechia (CZK Kč) Denmark (DKK kr.) Estonia (EUR €) Finland (EUR €) France (EUR €) Greece (EUR €) Hungary (HUF Ft) Ireland (EUR €) Italy (EUR €) Latvia (EUR €) Lithuania (EUR €) Luxembourg (EUR €) Malta (EUR €) Netherlands (EUR €) Poland (PLN zł) Portugal (EUR €) Romania (RON Lei) Slovakia (EUR €) Slovenia (EUR €) Spain (EUR €) Sweden (SEK kr) United States (USD $) MOBILIER DESIGNERS JOURNAL ABOUT MOBILIER DESIGNERS JOURNAL ABOUT CONTACT FR EN 0 MOBILIER DESIGNERS JOURNAL ABOUT MOBILIER DESIGNERS JOURNAL ABOUT CONTACT FRANÇAIS ENGLISH Biography Furniture Ecart Design In 1978, at 6 rue Pavée in Paris, Andrée Putman brought her passion for decorative arts to life by founding Ecart. The company was established with a clear mission: to reissue furniture and objects from historical creators of the early 20th century, many of whom had been largely forgotten. Located in a showroom set up in a former warehouse, Ecart positioned itself as a pioneer in what it called an “archaeology of modernity.” From the beginning, Andrée Putman focused on reissuing iconic works by major names in design and decorative arts, whose timeless elegance contrasted with the dominant aesthetics of the 1980s, characterized by the Memphis Group and Starck’s minimalism. She chose to revive the creations of Mariano Fortuny, Eileen Gray, Jean-Michel Frank, Robert Mallet-Stevens, Michel Dufet, Pierre Chareau, and Jacques-Henri Lartigue, among other influential figures. Guided by a meticulous eye, aesthetic intuition, and extensive archival research, she carefully selected furniture, lamps, rugs, and objects from period reviews and antique dealers. Each piece was analyzed in detail to understand its mechanisms and functions, allowing it to be revitalized for contemporary society. A pioneer in reissues, Andrée Putman was soon joined by Colette Bel, who took charge of editorial direction and oversaw the development of reissues at Ecart. With growing success, Andrée decided to expand her catalog to include contemporary creators like Sacha Ketoff, Olivier Gagnère, Naggar and Lachevsky, Sylvain Dubuisson, and Martin Szekely. In addition to these editions from contemporary designers, Ecart developed its own creative studio; Ecart Design. This in-house studio allowed the company to design original pieces, enriching its offerings and affirming its vision of timeless modernity. The name “Ecart,” an anagram of “Trace,” evokes an aesthetic journey marked by elegance, quality, and restraint. Ecart Design Ecart Design In 1978, at 6 rue Pavée in Paris, Andrée Putman brought her passion for decorative arts to life by founding Ecart. The company was established with a clear mission: to reissue furniture and objects from historical creators of the early 20th century, many of whom had been largely forgotten. Located in a showroom set up in a former warehouse, Ecart positioned itself as a pioneer in what it called an “archaeology of modernity.” From the beginning, Andrée Putman focused on reissuing iconic works by major names in design and decorative arts, whose timeless elegance contrasted with the dominant aesthetics of the 1980s, characterized by the Memphis Group and Starck’s minimalism. She chose to revive the creations of Mariano Fortuny, Eileen Gray, Jean-Michel Frank, Robert Mallet-Stevens, Michel Dufet, Pierre Chareau, and Jacques-Henri Lartigue, among other influential figures. Guided by a meticulous eye, aesthetic intuition, and extensive archival research, she carefully selected furniture, lamps, rugs, and objects from period reviews and antique dealers. Each piece was analyzed in detail to understand its mechanisms and functions, allowing it to be revitalized for contemporary society. A pioneer in reissues, Andrée Putman was soon joined by Colette Bel, who took charge of editorial direction and oversaw the development of reissues at Ecart. With growing success, Andrée decided to expand her catalog to include contemporary creators like Sacha Ketoff, Olivier Gagnère, Naggar and Lachevsky, Sylvain Dubuisson, and Martin Szekely. In addition to these editions from contemporary designers, Ecart developed its own creative studio; Ecart Design. This in-house studio allowed the company to design original pieces, enriching its offerings and affirming its vision of timeless modernity. The name “Ecart,” an anagram of “Trace,” evokes an aesthetic journey marked by elegance, quality, and restraint. Ecart Design Traversante Coffee table Damier Coffee table, c. 1993 Damier Side Tables, c. 1993 Folding Table Kraft Floor Lamp, c. 1992 Kraft Table Lamp, c. 1992 Discover News NEWS ROBERT MALLET-STEVENS ECART unveils the reissue of three emblematic seating designs by Robert Mallet-Stevens (1886-1945): the Transat, c. 1929, the Armchair, c. 1927, and the Chair, c. 1930. These reissues will now be available in four shades: dark brown, dark green, light grey and off-white. Discover Subscribe to our newsletter By subscribing to our newsletter, you give us permission to process your data. Refer to our Privacy Policy for more information. SUBSCRIBE CONTACT Ecart gallery Press Careers Distributors RESSOURCES Privacy policy Legal notice Credits ABOUT ABOUT Ecart Press coverage SOCIAL MEDIA Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Facebook YouTube SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER Subscribe © All Rights Reserved 2026 Cart Recently Viewed - Your subtotal today is $-.-- . Tax included and shipping calculated at checkout. Go to cart Availability