Pete Rozelle | Pro Football Hall of Fame Hall of Famers Find Hall of Famers Hall of Famers' Ventures Class of 2025 Hall of Famers (By Year Of Enshrinement) Yearly Finalists Visit the Museum Plan Your Visit Group Rates Know Before You Go / FAQs Buy Tickets Memberships Black College Football Hall Of Fame ADA Events All Upcoming Events Hall of Famer Residency Program Clash at the Classic Host Your Event at the Hall Shop Tickets Contributor / Contributor Pete Rozelle Class of 1985 Seasons 30 The most fun thing was watching the development of the Super Bowl, because the game is what it’s all about. Enshrinement Speech Read More During his 30 years as commissioner of the National Football League, Pete Rozelle was recognized as the premier commissioner of all professional sports. A charismatic leader, he guided the league through a period of unprecedented growth. Rozelle was the 33-year-old general manager of the Los Angeles Rams when he left for the annual NFL meetings in January, 1960. The principal business was to name a new commissioner to replace the popular Bert Bell, who had died three months earlier. After 23 ballots had failed to produce a new leader, two owners asked Rozelle to leave the meeting room while they and the other owners had a discussion. After a couple of hours, Pete was invited back to the meeting to hear the news that he was the NFL’s new leader. Rozelle's accomplishments are legendary, and the NFL’s many challenges during his tenure are well documented. Such things as blockbuster television contracts, the war with the competing American Football League and the resulting merger, the development of the Super Bowl into America’s premier sporting event, difficult player issues including strikes and threatened strikes, plus numerous court and legislative battles, all dominated headlines during his stewardship. Throughout it all, Rozelle remained a dominating factor. His leadership created the profound image of stability and integrity still associated with the NFL. He continually encouraged the club owners to work together despite numerous challenges, while always demonstrating a calm, reassuring, strong management style. It was Rozelle who convinced NFL owners to share equally their television revenues. A former University of San Francisco sports information director, Rozelle first joined the Los Angeles Rams as public relations director. He later worked as a public relations specialist at the 1956 Summer Olympics in Melbourne, Australia, and then returned to the Rams for a three-year tenure as general manager, before his election to the NFL Commissioner’s post. Career Capsule Full Name: Alvin Ray Rozelle Birthdate: March 1, 1926 Birthplace: South Gate, Calif. Died: Dec. 6, 1996 High School: Compton (Calif.) Enshrined into Pro Football Hall of Fame: Aug. 3, 1985 Other Members of Class of 1985: Frank Gatski , J oe Namath , O.J. Simpson , Roger Staubach Enshrinement Speech Related Albums Hall of Famers by Class Related Articles Moments in NFL History: Atlanta granted NFL franchise Moments in NFL History: Media deal forever changes NFL landscape Pete Rozelle's typewriter work at the hall buy tickets faqs media guide Copyright © 2026 Pro Football Hall of Fame. All rights reserved. Mobile Terms Privacy Terms of use