David Byrne/Fatboy Slim All-Star Imelda Marcos Box Set Due | Pitchfork Skip to main content Open Navigation Menu Newsletter Search News Reviews Best New Music Features Lists Columns Video Open Navigation Menu Search News David Byrne/Fatboy Slim All-Star Imelda Marcos Box Set Due Features Santigold, My Brightest Diamond, Florence and the Machine, Tori Amos, Cyndi Lauper, Sharon Jones, Steve Earle, Róisín Murphy, Nellie McKay, more By Amy Phillips December 14, 2009 Save this story Save this story Front page photo by Kyle Gustafson Here Lies Love , David Byrne and Fatboy Slim 's long-in-the-works concept album about Imelda Marcos, is finally here! And wow, does it sport an impressive guest list. Contributing vocals to the song cycle about the former Philippines First Lady (and her childhood servant, Estrella Cumpas): Santigold, Tori Amos, Cyndi Lauper, Sharon Jones, Steve Earle, Florence Welch of Florence and the Machine, Shara Worden of My Brightest Diamond, R贸is铆n Murphy, Nellie McKay, Kate Pierson of the B-52s, and many more. Byrne himself only sings on two of the project's 22 songs. On February 23 April 6, Todomundo/ Nonesuch will release Here Lies Love as a box set that includes two CDs, a 100-page book, and a DVD, which you can see pictured above. More info about the project can be found here . The tracklist is below: CD 1: 01 Here Lies Love (Vocals by Florence Welch of Florence and the Machine) 02 Every Drop of Rain (Vocals by Candie Payne and St. Vincent) 03 You'll Be Taken Care Of (Vocals by Tori Amos) 04 The Rose of Tacloban (Vocals by Martha Wainwright) 05 How Are you? (Vocals by Nellie McKay) 06 A Perfect Hand (Vocals by Steve Earle) 07 Eleven Days (Vocals by Cyndi Lauper) 08 When She Passed By (Vocals by Allison Moorer) 09 Walk Like A Woman Vocals by Charmaine Clamor) 10 Don't You Agree? (Vocals by R贸is铆n Murphy) 11 Pretty Face (Vocals by Camille) 12 Ladies in Blue (Vocals by Theresa Andersson) CD 2: 01 Dancing Together (Vocals by Sharon Jones) 02 Men Will Do Anything (Vocals by Alice Russell) 03 The Whole Man (Vocals by Kate Pierson) 04 Never So Big (Vocals by Sia) 05 Please Don't (Vocals by Santigold) 06 American Troglodyte (Vocals by David Byrne) 07 Solano Avenue (Vocals by Nicole Atkins) 08 Order 1081 (Vocals by Natalie Merchant) 09 Seven Years (Vocals by David Byrne and Shara Worden) 10 Why Don't You Love Me? (Vocals by Cyndi Lauper and Tori Amos) Amy Phillips ran Pitchfork News from 2005 to 2019, before becoming Managing Editor and Executive Editor. In addition to Pitchfork, she has written for The New York Times , The Village Voice , The Philadelphia Inquirer , Spin , Seventeen , and many other publications. A native of Philadelphia, she currently lives in Brooklyn. ... Read More Contributor Comments Back to top Tags Collaboration Album Releases Box Set David Byrne Fatboy Slim Electronic Rock The most trusted voice in music More From Pitchfork Video Lists & Guides Podcast Masthead RSS Site Map FAQ Subscribe Events Pitchfork Music Festival London Pitchfork Music Festival Paris Pitchfork Music Festival CDMX All Events User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights Newsletter RSS Feeds Contact Accessibility Help Advertising © 2026 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Pitchfork may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Entertainment