Apollo 14 - NASA Explore Search News & Events News & Events News Releases Recently Published Video Series on NASA+ Podcasts & Audio Blogs Newsletters Social Media Media Resources Events Upcoming Launches & Landings Virtual Guest Program Multimedia Multimedia NASA+ Images NASA Live NASA Apps Podcasts Image of the Day e-Books 3D Resources Interactives STEM Multimedia NASA Brand & Usage Guidelines NASA+ Search Suggested Searches Climate Change Artemis Expedition 64 Mars perseverance SpaceX Crew-2 International Space Station View All Topics A-Z Home Missions Humans in Space Earth The Solar System The Universe Science Aeronautics Technology Learning Resources About NASA Español News & Events Multimedia NASA+ Featured 5 min read NASA Announces MAX POWER: America’s Newest Aerospace Expo, Airshow article 2 days ago 4 min read Lion Nebula Roars to Life With NASA’s Webb article 6 days ago 4 min read What’s Up: August 2026 Skywatching Tips from NASA article 2 weeks ago Back Missions Search All NASA Missions A to Z List of Missions Upcoming Launches and Landings Spaceships and Rockets Communicating with Missions Artemis James Webb Space Telescope Hubble Space Telescope International Space Station OSIRIS-Rex Humans in Space Why Go to Space Astronauts Commercial Space Destinations Spaceships and Rockets Living in Space Earth Explore Earth Science Climate Change Earth, Our Planet Earth Science in Action Earth Multimedia Earth Data Earth Science Researchers The Solar System The Sun Mercury Venus Earth The Moon Mars Jupiter Saturn Uranus Neptune Pluto & Dwarf Planets Asteroids, Comets & Meteors The Kuiper Belt The Oort Cloud Skywatching The Universe Exoplanets The Search for Life in the Universe Stars Galaxies Black Holes The Big Bang Dark Energy Dark Matter Science Earth Science Planetary Science Astrophysics & Space Science The Sun & Heliophysics Biological & Physical Sciences Lunar Science Citizen Science Astromaterials Aeronautics Research Human Space Travel Research Aeronautics Science in the Air NASA Aircraft Flight Research Innovation Supersonic Flight Air Traffic Solutions Green Aviation Tech Drones & You Technology Technology Transfer & Spinoffs Space Travel Living in Space Lunar Surface Technology Manufacturing and Materials Robotics Science Instruments Computing Learning Resources For Kids and Students For Educators For Colleges and Universities For Professionals Science for Everyone Requests for Exhibits, Artifacts, Speakers & Flyovers STEM Engagement at NASA About NASA NASA's Impacts Centers and Facilities Directorates Organizations People of NASA Careers Internships Our History Doing Business with NASA Get Involved Contact NASA en Español Ciencia Aeronáutica Ciencias Terrestres Sistema Solar Universo News & Events News Releases Recently Published Video Series on NASA+ Podcasts & Audio Blogs Newsletters Social Media Media Resources Events Upcoming Launches & Landings Virtual Guest Program Multimedia NASA+ Images NASA Live NASA Apps Podcasts Image of the Day e-Books 3D Resources Interactives STEM Multimedia NASA Brand & Usage Guidelines Featured 4 min read NASA Telescopes Create Colorful ‘Craft’ From Nearby Nebula article 5 days ago 1 min read NASA Swift Boost Spacecraft Prepares to Continue Mission article 5 days ago 2 min read NASA’s IMAP Mission Releases New Data From 7 Science Instruments article 1 week ago Highlights 3 min read NASA Will Attempt to Observe Rocket Part’s Lunar Impact article 2 weeks ago 4 min read NASA Delivers Navigation System for Commercial Lunar Relay article 2 weeks ago 5 min read Establishing Crew Exposure Limits of Martian Dust article 4 weeks ago Highlights 3 min read A Sunflower’s View of Totality article 3 days ago 3 min read Cascade Volcanoes Shrouded in Smoke article 4 days ago 3 min read Stops Along the Path of Totality article 5 days ago Highlights 5 min read NASA’s COFFIES Uses AI to Predict Storm-Causing Active Regions on Sun article 2 days ago 5 min read NASA Completes Astronaut-Deployed Science Instrument for Lunar Surface article 5 days ago 2 min read Community College Instructors Bring Astronomy Textbook Into 21st Century article 6 days ago Featured 4 min read NASA Telescopes Create Colorful ‘Craft’ From Nearby Nebula article 5 days ago 4 min read Lion Nebula Roars to Life With NASA’s Webb article 6 days ago 8 min read Helio and You: Studying Eclipses Near and Far article 1 week ago Highlights 2 min read Volunteer Develops Machine-Learning Tool to Identify Rare Clouds article 2 days ago 5 min read NASA’s COFFIES Uses AI to Predict Storm-Causing Active Regions on Sun article 2 days ago 3 min read Quality Assessment Report Evaluates Polar Geospatial Center EarthDEM Elevation Products article 4 days ago Highlights 2 min read Michael T. Lippert article 3 weeks ago 4 min read NASA, GE Aerospace Work Enables Hybrid-Electric Flight Demonstration article 4 weeks ago 3 min read NASA Pushes New Wing Design to Find Structural Limits article 4 weeks ago Highlights 3 min read NASA Data Helps Commercial Space Plan Living Off Our Moon article 4 days ago 5 min read NASA Completes Astronaut-Deployed Science Instrument for Lunar Surface article 5 days ago 1 min read Update to A.1 Earth Science Research Overview: Earth Science proposals that include NASA high-end computing resources must include costs article 2 weeks ago Featured 4 min read Launch Into a New School Year With NASA article 6 days ago Featured 5 min read NASA Announces MAX POWER: America’s Newest Aerospace Expo, Airshow article 2 days ago 3 min read NASA Competition Invites Students to Help Imagine a Future Enabled by Lunar Technologies article 2 days ago 5 min read NASA Shares Station Research Today Supporting Moon, Mars Tomorrow article 5 days ago Highlights 11 min read La NASA anuncia la cobertura de la misión lunar Artemis II article 5 months ago 15 min read Agenda diaria de la misión a la Luna de Artemis II de la NASA article 5 months ago 6 min read La NASA refuerza Artemis: añade una misión y perfecciona su arquitectura general article 6 months ago Apollo Program The Apollo Program Missions Apollo 1 Apollo 4 Apollo 5 Apollo 6 Apollo 7 Apollo 8 Apollo 9 Apollo 10 Apollo 11 Apollo 12 Apollo 13 Apollo 14 Apollo 15 Apollo 16 Apollo 17 Apollo 14 Occurred 56 years ago "Shepard back in space…" Mission Type Lunar Landing crew Alan B. Shepard Jr., Edgar D. Mitchell, Stuart A. Roosa Launch Jan. 31, 1971 SPLASHDOWN Feb. 9, 1971 The prime crew of the Apollo 14 lunar landing mission. Left to right, are Edgar D. Mitchell, lunar module pilot; Alan B. Shepard Jr., commander; and Stuart A. Roosa, command module pilot. The Apollo 14 emblem is in the background. (December 1970) NASA High-angle view at Launch Complex 39, Kennedy Space Center (KSC), showing the Apollo 14 (Spacecraft 110/Lunar Module 8/Saturn 509) space vehicle on the way from the Vehicle Assembly Building (VAB) to Pad A. The Saturn V stack and its mobile launch tower sit atop a huge crawler-transporter. The Apollo 14 crewmen will be astronauts Alan B. Shepard Jr., commander; Stuart A. Roosa, command module pilot; and Edgar D. Mitchell, lunar module pilot. (9 Nov.1970) NASA An excellent view of the Apollo 14 Lunar Module (LM) on the moon, as photographed during the first Apollo 14 extravehicular activity (EVA) on the lunar surface. The astronauts have already deployed the U.S. flag. Note the laser ranging retro reflector (LR-3) at the foot of the LM ladder. The LR-3 was deployed later. While astronauts Alan B. Shepard Jr., commander, and Edgar D. Mitchell, lunar module pilot, descended in the LM to explore the moon, astronaut Stuart A. Roosa, command module pilot, remained with the Command and Service Modules (CSM) in lunar orbit. (5 Feb. 1971} NASA A front view of the Apollo 14 Lunar Module (LM), which reflects a circular flare caused by the brilliant sun, as seen by the two moon-exploring crew men (out of frame) of the Apollo 14 lunar landing mission during their first extravehicular activity (EVA). The unusual ball of light was said by the astronauts to have a jewel-like appearance. In the left background Cone Crater can be seen. In the left foreground are the erectable S-Band antenna and the United States flag. Astronauts Alan B. Shepard Jr., commander, and Edgar D. Mitchell, lunar module pilot, descended in the LM, while astronaut Stuart A. Roosa, command module pilot, remained with the Command and Service Modules (CSM) in lunar orbit. (5 Fe. 1971) NASA The Apollo 14 Command Module (CM), with astronauts Alan B. Shepard Jr., commander; Stuart A. Roosa, command module pilot; and Edgar D. Mitchell, lunar module pilot, aboard, approaches touchdown in the South Pacific Ocean to successfully end a 10-day lunar landing mission. The splashdown occurred at 3:04:39 p.m. (CST), Feb. 9, 1971, approximately 765 nautical miles south of American Samoa. The three crew men were flown by helicopter to the USS New Orleans prime recovery ship. (9 Feb. 1971) NASA Apollo 14 astronauts Shepard, left, Roosa, and Mitchell riding in a motorcade in Chicago NASA Roosa, Mitchell, and Shepard taping a segment with Tonight Show guest host Joey Bishop . NASA Alan B. Shepard, Jr. Edgar D. Mitchell Stuart A. Roosa Alan B. Shepard, Jr. Commander Rear Admiral Shepard was one of the Mercury astronauts named by NASA in April 1959, and holds the distinction of being the first American to journey into space. On May 5, 1961, in the Freedom 7 spacecraft, he was launched by a Redstone vehicle on a ballistic trajectory suborbital flight—a flight which carried him to an altitude of 116 statute miles and to a landing point 302 statute miles down the Atlantic Missile Range. He was the only Mercury astronaut to go to the Moon. More About Alan B. Shepard Portrait of Alan Shepard, commander of the Apollo 14 lunar landing mission. NASA Edgar D. Mitchell Lunar Module Pilot Mitchell was a member of Group 5, selected for astronaut training in April 1966. He served as a member of the astronaut support crew for Apollo 9 and as backup lunar module pilot for Apollo 10. On January 31, 1971, serving as lunar module pilot, Dr. Edgar Mitchell, then a U.S. Navy Captain, embarked on a journey through outer space of some 500,000 miles that resulted in becoming the sixth man to walk on the moon. More About Edgar D. Mitchell Astronaut Edgar D. Mitchell, lunar module pilot of the Apollo 14 lunar landing mission. The Apollo 14 emblem is in the background. The other two members of the crew are Alan B. Shepard Jr., commander; and Stuart A. Roosa, command module pilot. NASA Stuart A. Roosa Command Module Pilot Colonel Roosa was one of the 19 astronauts selected by NASA in April 1966. He was a member of the astronaut support crew for the Apollo 9 flight. He completed his first space flight as command module pilot on Apollo 14, January 31 –February 9, 1971. More About Stuart A. Roosa Portrait of Apollo 14 command module pilot, Stuart A. Roosa NASA Featured Story Apollo 14: Mission Details “Shepard back in space…” Read the Story Apollo 14 Articles Learn more about the mission that landed Alan Shepard and Edgar Mitchell in the Fra Mauro highlands of the Moon. 50 Years Ago: Apollo 14 Crew Leaves Quarantine 5 min read Following their splashdown in the Pacific Ocean, Apollo 14 astronauts Alan B. Shepard, Stuart A. Roosa, and Edgar D. Mitchell… February 25, 2021 Article 50 Years Ago: Apollo 14 Splashdown and Recovery 11 min read On Feb. 9, 1971, the nine-day Apollo 14 Moon landing mission came to a successful conclusion with the splashdown of… February 9, 2021 Article 50 Years Ago: Apollo 14 Heads for Home 10 min read While Apollo 14 astronauts Alan B. Shepard and Edgar D. Mitchell explored the lunar surface at the Fra Mauro landing… February 5, 2021 Article 50 Years Ago: Apollo 14 Lands at Fra Mauro 17 min read After Apollo 14 entered lunar orbit on Feb. 4, 1971, astronauts Alan B. Shepard, and Edgar D. Mitchell separated their… February 4, 2021 Article Moon Trees Stand as Living Testaments to First Voyages to Moon 4 min read The craters, mountains, and plains of the Moon stretched beneath the Apollo 14 Command and Service Module Kitty Hawk in… February 4, 2021 Article 50 Years Ago: Apollo 14 Launches to the Moon 12 min read The third Moon landing mission began on Jan. 31, 1971, with the launch of Apollo 14. A giant Saturn V… February 1, 2021 Article 1 2 3 Next Featured Story 50 Years Ago: Apollo 14 Launches to the Moon The third Moon landing mission began on Jan. 31, 1971, with the launch of Apollo 14. A giant Saturn V… Read the Story Apollo News See All History News 48 Min Read Callsign White Flight Article 4 Min Read Playing the Moon Game 33 Min Read Update: Artemis II Crew Flies Around the Moon Article 3 Min Read A Little Town With a Long Name Moon Trees Sprouted from seeds that flew around the Moon aboard Apollo 14 in February 1971, “Moon Trees” endure as living reminders of Apollo-era lunar exploration. Learn More about Moon Trees Apollo 14 18 Images Go To Gallery Go To Gallery Keep Exploring Discover More Topics From NASA Missions Humans In Space Project Gemini The Apollo Program National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA explores the unknown in air and space, innovates for the benefit of humanity, and inspires the world through discovery. About NASA's Mission Join Us Home News & Events Multimedia NASA+ Missions Humans in Space Earth The Solar System The Universe Science Aeronautics Technology Learning Resources About NASA NASA en Español (opens in new tab) Follow NASA More NASA Social Accounts NASA Newsletters Sitemap For Media Privacy Policy FOIA No FEAR Act Office of the IG (opens in new tab) Budget & Annual Reports Agency Financial Reports Contact NASA Accessibility Page Last Updated: Jun 22, 2026 Page Editor: Michele Ostovar Responsible NASA Official: Abigail Bowman Was this page helpful? Δ Was this page helpful? Yes No ×