Orange to replace CEO Richard by Jan. 31 | Euronews Go to navigation Go to main content Go to search Go to footer English English Français Deutsch Italiano Español Português Polski Pусский Türkçe Ελληνικά Magyar فارسی العربية Shqip Română ქართული български Srpski BHS Newsletters Events Podcasts Videos Africanews Latest Trending US-Israel attack on Iran 2026 War in Ukraine Competition Dogs Poland Race Latest news Sport Ronaldo tells fashion magazine this year could be his last as player Culture news Thieves steal four Renaissance artworks from Sicily museum Culture news Vogue publishes exclusive photos of Ronaldo and Georgina's wedding Top News Stories Today Latest news bulletin | August 16th, 2026 – Evening Europe Categories EU.XL Europe News Europe Series France United Kingdom Programmes Europe in Motion The Cube The Europe Conversation 12 minutes with Made in Europe Brussels, My Love? Euronews investigates Make it Work Smart Regions Featured Europe Today Euronews' flagship morning TV show with the news and insights that drive Europe, live from Brussels every morning at 08.00. Also available as a newsletter and podcast. The Ring The Ring is Euronews’ weekly political showdown, where Europe’s toughest debates meet their boldest voices. In each episode, two political heavyweights from across the EU face off to propose a diversity of opinions and spark conversations around the most important issues of EU affairs and the wider European political life. World Categories World Americas Middle East Africa Asia Oceania Davos Iran Greenland USA Programmes Spotlight Global Japan Euronews Witness Qatar 365 World News Euronews Debates Football Now Top News Stories Today Featured No Comment No agenda, no argument, no bias, No Comment. Get the story without commentary. EU Policy Business Categories Business Economy Markets Programmes Business Planet Energy Frontiers Focus Real Economy Start Me Up The Dialogue Target The Exchange Featured My Wildest Prediction Dare to imagine the future with business and tech visionaries The Big Question Deep dive conversations with business leaders Travel Categories Travel News Destinations Moments Residences Travel Live TV Programmes Grand Voyager Adventures Conscious Travel Explore Golf Travel Tales Notes From The Usa Soul Of The South Taste Women Beyond Borders Next Categories Tech News Money Space Work Mobility Home Artificial intelligence Programmes Dub.AI Hacker Hunter Rethink Sci-Tech Featured Euronews Tech Talks Euronews Tech Talks goes beyond discussions to explore the impact of new technologies on our lives. With explanations, engaging Q&As, and lively conversations, the podcast provides valuable insights into the intersection of technology and society. The Food Detectives Europe's best food experts are joining forces to crack down on fraud. Euronews is following them in this special series: The Food Detectives Culture Categories Culture news Style Design Art Taste Music Cinema Programmes Creators Crossing Cultures Cry Like A Boy Cult Inspire Saudi Meet The Locals Melting Pot Culture Modern Nomads Musica Scenes The Kitchen The Star Ingredient Earth Categories Earth News Nature Water EcoTech Programmes Ocean Ocean Calls The Road To Green Featured Water Matters Europe's water is under increasing pressure. Pollution, droughts, floods are taking their toll on our drinking water, lakes, rivers and coastlines. Join us on a journey around Europe to see why protecting ecosystems matters, how our wastewater can be better managed, and to discover some of the best water solutions. Video reports, an animated explainer series and live debate - find out why Water Matters, from Euronews. Climate Now We give you the latest climate facts from the world’s leading source, analyse the trends and explain how our planet is changing. We meet the experts on the front line of climate change who explore new strategies to mitigate and adapt. Health Categories Health news Healthcare Nutrition Wellbeing Programmes Smart Health Euroviews Videos More Special coverage Climate Global Japan InClassica Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Young Inventors Prize 2025 Discover Algeria Discover Türkiye Golf Travel Tales From Qatar Uzbekistan Partner content Islamic Civilization Center Be Bold. Discover Saudi Leading Edge Powering Progress Experience Brazil Italy – Heritage & Horizons Poland Untold Costa Rica Beyond Business Saadiyat Cultural District My Tokyo Kerala Tourism Dubai Global Digital Economy Hub Turkmenistan - Our story Endless Discovery Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, Japan Services Weather Bulletin Messaging apps Widgets & Services Online Language Courses Find Us Log In My Account Live Close menu sidebar English English Français Deutsch Italiano Español Português Polski Pусский Türkçe Ελληνικά Magyar فارسی العربية Shqip Română ქართული български Srpski BHS Latest Trending US-Israel attack on Iran 2026 War in Ukraine Competition Dogs Poland Race Latest news Sport Ronaldo tells fashion magazine this year could be his last as player Culture news Thieves steal four Renaissance artworks from Sicily museum Culture news Vogue publishes exclusive photos of Ronaldo and Georgina's wedding Top News Stories Today Latest news bulletin | August 16th, 2026 – Evening Europe Categories EU.XL Europe News Europe Series France United Kingdom Programmes Europe in Motion The Cube The Europe Conversation 12 minutes with Made in Europe Brussels, My Love? Euronews investigates Make it Work Smart Regions Featured Europe Today Euronews' flagship morning TV show with the news and insights that drive Europe, live from Brussels every morning at 08.00. Also available as a newsletter and podcast. The Ring The Ring is Euronews’ weekly political showdown, where Europe’s toughest debates meet their boldest voices. In each episode, two political heavyweights from across the EU face off to propose a diversity of opinions and spark conversations around the most important issues of EU affairs and the wider European political life. World Categories World Americas Middle East Africa Asia Oceania Davos Iran Greenland USA Programmes Spotlight Global Japan Euronews Witness Qatar 365 World News Euronews Debates Football Now Top News Stories Today Featured No Comment No agenda, no argument, no bias, No Comment. Get the story without commentary. EU Policy Business Categories Business Economy Markets Programmes Business Planet Energy Frontiers Focus Real Economy Start Me Up The Dialogue Target The Exchange Featured My Wildest Prediction Dare to imagine the future with business and tech visionaries The Big Question Deep dive conversations with business leaders Travel Categories Travel News Destinations Moments Residences Travel Live TV Programmes Grand Voyager Adventures Conscious Travel Explore Golf Travel Tales Notes From The Usa Soul Of The South Taste Women Beyond Borders Next Categories Tech News Money Space Work Mobility Home Artificial intelligence Programmes Dub.AI Hacker Hunter Rethink Sci-Tech Featured Euronews Tech Talks Euronews Tech Talks goes beyond discussions to explore the impact of new technologies on our lives. With explanations, engaging Q&As, and lively conversations, the podcast provides valuable insights into the intersection of technology and society. The Food Detectives Europe's best food experts are joining forces to crack down on fraud. Euronews is following them in this special series: The Food Detectives Culture Categories Culture news Style Design Art Taste Music Cinema Programmes Creators Crossing Cultures Cry Like A Boy Cult Inspire Saudi Meet The Locals Melting Pot Culture Modern Nomads Musica Scenes The Kitchen The Star Ingredient Earth Categories Earth News Nature Water EcoTech Programmes Ocean Ocean Calls The Road To Green Featured Water Matters Europe's water is under increasing pressure. Pollution, droughts, floods are taking their toll on our drinking water, lakes, rivers and coastlines. Join us on a journey around Europe to see why protecting ecosystems matters, how our wastewater can be better managed, and to discover some of the best water solutions. Video reports, an animated explainer series and live debate - find out why Water Matters, from Euronews. Climate Now We give you the latest climate facts from the world’s leading source, analyse the trends and explain how our planet is changing. We meet the experts on the front line of climate change who explore new strategies to mitigate and adapt. Health Categories Health news Healthcare Nutrition Wellbeing Programmes Smart Health Euroviews Videos More Special coverage Climate Global Japan InClassica Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Young Inventors Prize 2025 Discover Algeria Discover Türkiye Golf Travel Tales From Qatar Uzbekistan Partner content Islamic Civilization Center Be Bold. Discover Saudi Leading Edge Powering Progress Experience Brazil Italy – Heritage & Horizons Poland Untold Costa Rica Beyond Business Saadiyat Cultural District My Tokyo Kerala Tourism Dubai Global Digital Economy Hub Turkmenistan - Our story Endless Discovery Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, Japan Services Weather Bulletin Messaging apps Widgets & Services Online Language Courses Newsletters Events Podcasts Videos Africanews Find Us Advertisement Next Tech News Orange to replace CEO Richard by Jan. 31 Orange to replace CEO Richard by Jan. 31 - Copyright Thomson Reuters 2021 Copyright Thomson Reuters 2021 By Reuters Published on 24/11/2021 - 21:55 GMT+1 Share Comments Add Euronews on Google Share Facebook Twitter Flipboard Send Reddit Linkedin Messenger Telegram VK Bluesky Threads Whatsapp PARIS - France's biggest telecoms operator Orange will appoint a new chief executive officer by Jan. 31 at the latest, the company said in a statement on Wednesday, confirming an earlier report by Reuters. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Orange's board said it had accepted CEO Stephane Richard's resignation as both chairman and chief executive of the group, which he lead for the past eleven years. The former monopoly said that Orange would have a "new governance" in place by Jan. 31. It wasn't clear if this meant that the chairman and CEO roles would be separated. Richard's resignation comes after a Paris appeal court convicted him of complicity of misuse of public funds earlier on Wednesday. Go to accessibility shortcuts Share Comments Add Euronews on Google Read more Tech News Poland forces Starlink U-turn over roaming price hike Tech News Uber and China’s Pony AI to launch over 2,000 robotaxis across Europe Tech News 18-year-olds spend more and more time online, especially on social media ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Top stories Uber and China’s Pony AI to launch over 2,000 robotaxis across Europe Extreme solar storms could expose airline passengers to radiation risk Poland forces Starlink U-turn over roaming price hike China's lead in orbital data centres risks leaving Europe behind Which countries have the best cyber security? Albania tops the list ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Most read 1 Poland forces Starlink U-turn over roaming price hike 2 EU rules force Anthropic to expose AI writing worldwide 3 Which countries have the best cyber security? Albania tops the list 4 Uber and China’s Pony AI to launch over 2,000 robotaxis across Europe 5 The people building AI now want governments to slow down the AI race ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Browse today's tags US-Israel attack on Iran 2026 War in Ukraine Competition Dogs Poland Race sport competition Peter Magyar Police Grand Prix Justice Cristiano Ronaldo Themes Europe World Business EU Policy Earth Next Health Travel Culture Videos Programmes Our journalists Euronews Archives – browse all articles and videos online Services Live Bulletin Weather Latest Follow us Apps Messaging apps Widgets & Services Africanews Online Language Courses More About Euronews Commercial Services Terms and Conditions Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Transparency Contact Work at Euronews Accessibility: non-compliant Modify my cookies choices Follow us Newsletters Copyright © euronews 2026