Automation pioneer John Diebold dies at 79 | InfoWorld Topics Latest Newsletters Resources Buyer’s Guides Events Search Menu Topics Close Analytics Artificial Intelligence Careers Cloud Computing Data Management Databases Development Tools Devops Emerging Technology Enterprise Buyer’s Guides Generative AI IT Leadership Java JavaScript Microsoft .NET Open Source Programming Languages Python Security Software Development Technology Industry Back Close Search Topics Latest Newsletters Resources Buyer’s Guides More Features Blogs BrandPosts Videos Topics Topics Analytics Artificial Intelligence Careers Cloud Computing Data Management Databases Development Tools Devops Emerging Technology Enterprise Buyer’s Guides Generative AI IT Leadership Java JavaScript Microsoft .NET Open Source Programming Languages Python Security Software Development Technology Industry Home Industry Markets Technology Industry by Nancy Weil Managing Editor Automation pioneer John Diebold dies at 79 news Dec 27, 2005 3 mins Visionary penned book in 1952 to explain how programmable devices would alter all business operations Automation pioneer John Diebold, who was 79, died Monday at his home in Bedford Hills, New York, The New York Times reported Tuesday. The Times quotes his nephew of the same name saying that Diebold died of esophageal cancer. A visionary of future uses of technology, Diebold wrote the book “Automation” in 1952 to explain how programmable devices would alter all manner of business operations. He went on to found The Diebold Group, whose electronic network linked records at the Bowery Savings Bank in New York with its branch banks and also enabled tellers to see deposits and withdrawals immediately. Up to that point, records had to be updated after banks closed to customers. The idea caught on and Diebold’s machines became ubiquitous in that industry and also for back-end office use in health care and other areas. Until publication of his book, the term “automation” had been used to refer to mechanization at Ford Motor Co. “People say I coined this word but I don’t claim to have invented the word, just the use of it,” Diebold is quoted as saying in “The Rule Breakers,” by Jeffrey L. Cruikshank. An excerpt from that book is posted at a Web site of the Harvard Business School, where Diebold earned a master’s degree in 1951. Diebold’s ideas about “automatic factories” came to him when he was a midshipman in the Merchant Marine in World War II. “I kept thinking, if we can build tools and if we have automatic antiaircraft fire control, why can’t we have an automatic factory?” he is quoted as saying in the book. While at the Harvard Business School, Diebold’s professor, John Doriot, suggested that Diebold create a factory on paper and he and classmates set to that project, producing a report called “Making the Automatic Factory a Reality.” A central computer controlling all automatic machines was one proposal given in the paper, says an excerpt from Cruikshank’s book posted at a business school Web site. He first went to work after business school at a management consulting firm in New York, but his insistence that clients should move to computers got him into trouble, Cruikshank wrote. “I was too early,” his book quotes Diebold saying. “It was before the first computer was installed for business use.” After being fired twice and ordered to “give up on his obsession with computer and automation,” the book says, Diebold refused. Fired again, he went on to start his own consultancy in April 1954, in Weehawken, New Jersey, his hometown. Clients included major U.S. companies, including AT&T Corp., IBM Corp., Boeing Co., as well as governments and other public bodies. According to the Times, survivors include Diebold’s wife, Vanessa, two daughters, Emma, of Bedford Hills, and Joan, of Quincy, Massachusetts, and a son, John, of Bedford Hills. Technology Industry Software Development Related content news Google releases C++ library for content provenance and authenticity By Paul Krill Aug 14, 2026 2 mins C++ Libraries and Frameworks Programming Languages news Google cuts Gemini 3.7 Flash prices as enterprise AI economics diverge and Pro cadence slows By Gyana Swain Aug 14, 2026 5 mins Artificial Intelligence Development Tools Generative AI news DeepSeek raises some V4 prices by more than 10x as AI demand strains capacity By Taryn Plumb Aug 13, 2026 7 mins APIs Artificial Intelligence Development Tools news Microsoft updates C++ build tools for Visual Studio By Paul Krill Aug 13, 2026 2 mins C++ Integrated Development Environments Visual Studio Other Sections Resources Videos by Nancy Weil Managing Editor Follow Nancy Weil on X Nancy Weill is managing editor of the IDG News Service, based in Boston. More from this author news 2014: The year in quotes Dec 16, 2014 7 mins news Symantec identifies sophisticated, stealthy Regin malware Nov 24, 2014 3 mins news Update: Warrants needed for cellphone searches, Supreme Court rules Jun 25, 2014 6 mins feature The tech quotes of 2013 Dec 25, 2013 5 mins news Update: ITC orders import ban on older iPhones, iPads in Samsung patent dispute Jun 4, 2013 3 mins how-to 2012: The year in quotes Dec 26, 2012 7 mins feature 2012: The year in quotes Dec 26, 2012 7 mins news U.S. judge dismisses Apple patents lawsuit against Motorola Jun 23, 2012 4 mins Show me more Popular Articles Videos news Nvidia moves into hot market for model routers By Maxwell Cooter Aug 14, 2026 2 mins Artificial Intelligence news Oracle’s new database security tool is free — for six months By Maxwell Cooter Aug 14, 2026 1 min Application Security Oracle Database Relational Databases opinion Cloud ops is different in a neocloud By David Linthicum Aug 14, 2026 7 mins Artificial Intelligence Cloud Architecture Cloud Security video AI trends that need more attention Aug 4, 2026 5 mins Python video Who's leaving GitHub and why Jul 29, 2026 7 mins Python video Typst, the programming language for documents Jul 23, 2026 7 mins Python About About Us Advertise Contact Us Editorial Ethics Policy Foundry Careers Newsletters Reprints Add InfoWorld as a Preferred Source in Google Search Policies Terms of Service Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Copyright Notice Member Preferences About AdChoices Your California Privacy Rights Privacy Settings More News Features Blogs BrandPosts Events Videos Enterprise Buyer’s Guides Our Network CIO Computerworld CSO Network World Facebook X YouTube Google News LinkedIn © 2026 FoundryCo, Inc. All Rights Reserved.