Dario Fo – Facts - NobelPrize.org Skip to content Nobel Prize Toggle Mobile Menu Nobel Prizes & laureates All Nobel Prizes All Nobel Prizes 2025 Physics prize Chemistry prize Medicine prize Literature prize Peace prize Prize in economic sciences About About the prize Alfred Nobel Award ceremonies Nomination Organisation Stories Educational Events & museums Search by term. Search Nobel Prize in Literature 1997 Summary Laureates Dario Fo Facts Nobel Prize lecture Biographical Bibliography Prose Banquet speech Nobel diploma Documentary Photo gallery Other resources Press release Bio-bibliography Award ceremony speech Share this Facebook X LinkedIn Email this page Dario Fo Facts Navigate to: Summary -- Facts -- Nobel Prize lecture -- Biographical -- Bibliography -- Prose -- Banquet speech -- Nobel diploma -- Documentary -- Photo gallery -- Other resources Press release Bio-bibliography Award ceremony speech Photo from the Nobel Foundation archive. Dario Fo Nobel Prize in Literature 1997 Born: 24 March 1926, Leggiuno-Sangiano, Italy Died: 13 October 2016, Milan, Italy Residence at the time of the award: Italy Prize motivation: “who emulates the jesters of the Middle Ages in scourging authority and upholding the dignity of the downtrodden” Language: Italian Prize share: 1/1 Life Dario Fo was born in Sangiano, Italy, near Lago Magiore. As a young man he trained as an architect, while at the same time taking an active part in amateur theater. He made his debut as an actor in 1952, and during the 1960s and 1970s, he was active in various theater groups. With the play Mistero Buffo (1969), he made a name for himself with his political and social satire. Fo collaborated very closely with his wife, Franca Rame (1929–2013). Work Dario Fo is one of modern political theater’s leading figures. His work is based on medieval farce and the buffoonery of commedia dell’arte, and it was performed not only in the theater, but also in parks, prisons and schools. Fo was embroiled in many controversies in his native Italy—with the government, the police and the Catholic Church. His most performed plays include Accidental Death of an Anarchist (1970) and We Won’t Pay, We Won’t Pay! (1974). To cite this section MLA style: Dario Fo – Facts. NobelPrize.org. Nobel Prize Outreach 2026. Sun. 16 Aug 2026. <https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/literature/1997/fo/facts/> Go to the top of the page Explore prizes and laureates Look for popular awards and laureates in different fields, and discover the history of the Nobel Prize. Select the category or categories you would like to filter by Physics Chemistry Medicine Literature Peace Economic Sciences Select the category or categories you would like to filter by Physics Chemistry Medicine Literature Peace Economic Sciences - Choose a year you would like to search in + Explore About the Nobel Prize organisation The Nobel Foundation Tasked with a mission to manage Alfred Nobel's fortune and has ultimate responsibility for fulfilling the intentions of Nobel's will. The prize-awarding institutions For more than a century, these academic institutions have worked independently to select Nobel Prize laureates. Outreach organisations Several outreach organisations and activities have been developed to inspire generations and disseminate knowledge about the Nobel Prize. Press Contact FAQ Privacy policy Terms of use For developers Media player Careers Join us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Nobel Prize Copyright © Nobel Prize Outreach 2026 Scroll to top