AFI|Catalog Toggle navigation AFI AFI HOME About AFI History Board of Trustees Senior Staff Directions Louis B. Mayer Library Contact Login Support CATALOG ABOUT RANDOM PICK WOMEN THEY TALK ABOUT FAQ The world’s most comprehensive Film database SEARCH THE CATALOG Movie Title Search for People Search for Feature Films Search for Short Films Movies by Director Movies by Producer Movies by Cast Movies by Release Year Movies by Production Company Movies by Genre Movies by Subject Movies by Source citations All Movie Title Movie Title Search for People Search for Feature Films Search for Short Films Movies by Director Movies by Producer Movies by Cast Movies by Release Year Movies by Production Company Movies by Genre Movies by Subject Movies by Source citations All Use the drop down menu to narrow your search. Advanced Search CONSERVATORY Masters Degree Program Alumni Innovative Programs Library FESTIVALS AFI FEST AFI DOCS AWARDS AFI AWARDS AFI Life Achievement Award PRESERVATION AFI Catalog of Feature Films Archive Collection at the Library of Congress The Robert Osborne Collection LISTS AFI 100 Years…100 Movies AFI 100 Years…100 Quotes TEN TOP TEN See all lists SILVER THEATRE Silver Theatre and Cultural Center SUPPORT Donate Join the Premiere Circle AFI AFI Movie Club News Press Newsletter Sign-up AFI Member All-Access Log In STAY CONNECTED AFI CATALOG OF FEATURE FILMS THE FIRST 100 YEARS 1893–1993 Movie Title Movie Title Search for People Search for Feature Films Search for Short Films Movies by Director Movies by Producer Movies by Cast Movies by Release Year Movies by Production Company Movies by Genre Movies by Subject All My Man Godfrey ( 1957 ) 92 mins | Screwball comedy | December 1957 Cast: June Allyson , David Niven , Jessie Royce Landis [ More ] Director: Henry Koster Writers: Everett Freeman , Peter Berneis , William Bowers Producer: Ross Hunter Cinematographer: William Daniels Editor: Milton Carruth Production Designers: Alexander Golitzen , Richard H. Riedel Production Company: Universal-International Pictures Co., Inc. HISTORY DETAILS CREDITS SYNOPSIS GENRE Print Details Full page view HISTORY The working title of this film was Her Man Godfrey . The opening and closing cast credits vary slightly in order. According to an Oct 1956 “Rambling Reporter” item in HR , Universal considered Doris Day to play “Irene Bullock,” but could not meet her salary demands. In Jan 1957, “Rambling Reporter” noted that Eva Gabor had tested for the role of “Cordelia Bullock.” European star O. W. Fischer was originally set to make his American feature film debut as “Godfrey,” and in Jan 1957 the studio took out a full-page ad “proudly welcoming” him to Hollywood. According to a Feb 1956 HR article, however, Fischer quit the production over “irreconcilable differences” on the interpretation of his role. A 21 Feb 1956 HR item reported that Universal responded with a lawsuit, asking for $131,860 in damages for refusing to perform according to his contract, and an 11 Mar 1956 HR article stated that the suit was settled out of court for an undisclosed sum. David Niven took over the role of Godfrey on 22 Feb 1957. The film’s Los Angeles premiere at Grauman’s Chinese Theatre marked the theater’s thirtieth anniversary. HR news items add the following actors to the cast: Eugene Borden, Janine Grandel, Carole Van Kirk, Charles Lind, Reg Harrell, Perk Lazell, June McCall, June Blair, Betty Quitte, Les Thomas, Richard Emory, Hal Taggert , George Peters, Paul Weber, Elizabeth Flournoy, June Joselyn and Leota Lorraine. Their appearance in the final film has not been confirmed. My Man Godfrey was a remake of the 1936 Universal film of the same name, which was directed by Gregory La ... More Less The working title of this film was Her Man Godfrey . The opening and closing cast credits vary slightly in order. According to an Oct 1956 “Rambling Reporter” item in HR , Universal considered Doris Day to play “Irene Bullock,” but could not meet her salary demands. In Jan 1957, “Rambling Reporter” noted that Eva Gabor had tested for the role of “Cordelia Bullock.” European star O. W. Fischer was originally set to make his American feature film debut as “Godfrey,” and in Jan 1957 the studio took out a full-page ad “proudly welcoming” him to Hollywood. According to a Feb 1956 HR article, however, Fischer quit the production over “irreconcilable differences” on the interpretation of his role. A 21 Feb 1956 HR item reported that Universal responded with a lawsuit, asking for $131,860 in damages for refusing to perform according to his contract, and an 11 Mar 1956 HR article stated that the suit was settled out of court for an undisclosed sum. David Niven took over the role of Godfrey on 22 Feb 1957. The film’s Los Angeles premiere at Grauman’s Chinese Theatre marked the theater’s thirtieth anniversary. HR news items add the following actors to the cast: Eugene Borden, Janine Grandel, Carole Van Kirk, Charles Lind, Reg Harrell, Perk Lazell, June McCall, June Blair, Betty Quitte, Les Thomas, Richard Emory, Hal Taggert , George Peters, Paul Weber, Elizabeth Flournoy, June Joselyn and Leota Lorraine. Their appearance in the final film has not been confirmed. My Man Godfrey was a remake of the 1936 Universal film of the same name, which was directed by Gregory La Cava and starred William Powell and Carole Lombard. Morrie Ryskind and Eric Hatch, who wrote the 1936 film, did not contribute directly to the later film. Their onscreen credits reads: "Based on the screenplay by Morrie Ryskind and Eric Hatch." According to a Jul 1946 HR item, Universal had planned a remake in that year, with Jane Murfin assigned as producer, but that version was never produced. Although an Oct 1955 HR item reported that Morrie Ryskind, Manny Frank and Charles Meeker bought the rights to My Man Godfrey in order to adapt it into musical starring Vivian Blaine, but it was not produced. Less SOURCE CITATIONS SOURCE DATE PAGE Box Office 7 Sep 1957 --- Box Office 14 Sep 1957 --- Daily Variety 4 Sep 1957 p. 3 Film Daily 4 Sep 1957 p. 11 Hollywood Reporter 23 Jul 1946 --- Hollywood Reporter 3 Oct 1955 --- Hollywood Reporter 30 Oct 1956 p. 2 Hollywood Reporter 11 Jan 1957 p. 2 Hollywood Reporter 15 Jan 1957 p. 5 Hollywood Reporter 25 Jan 1957 p. 24 Hollywood Reporter 31 Jan 1957 p. 10 Hollywood Reporter 11 Feb 1957 p. 2 Hollywood Reporter 12 Feb 1957 p. 8 Hollywood Reporter 18 Feb 1957 p. 11 Hollywood Reporter 20 Feb 1957 p. 2 Hollywood Reporter 21 Feb 1957 p. 1 Hollywood Reporter 26 Feb 1957 p. 5 Hollywood Reporter 5 Mar 1957 p. 2 Hollywood Reporter 11 Mar 1957 p. 2 Hollywood Reporter 19 Apr 1957 p. 16 Hollywood Reporter 23 Apr 1957 p. 7 Hollywood Reporter 12 Jul 1957 p. 6 Hollywood Reporter 4 Sep 1957 p. 3 Motion Picture Herald Product Digest 7 Sep 1957 p. 521 New York Times 12 Oct 1957 p. 23 CAST NAME CREDITED AS CREDIT June Allyson Irene [Bullock] David Niven Godfrey Jessie Royce Landis Angelica [Bullock] Robert Keith Mr. [Alexander] Bullock Eva Gabor Francesca [Gray] Jay Robinson Vincent Martha Hyer Cordelia [Bullock] Jeff Donnell Molly Herbert Anderson Hubert Eric Sinclair Brent + − NAME CREDITED AS CREDIT June Allyson Irene [Bullock] David Niven Godfrey Jessie Royce Landis Angelica [Bullock] Robert Keith Mr. [Alexander] Bullock Eva Gabor Francesca [Gray] Jay Robinson Vincent Martha Hyer Cordelia [Bullock] Jeff Donnell Molly Herbert Anderson Hubert Eric Sinclair Brent Dabbs Greer Lieutenant O'Connor Fred Essler Captain Jack Mather Second detective Paul Levitt Young man at bar Harry Cheshire [James] Elliott Robert Clarke George Robert Brubaker Man with monkey Fred Coby Investigator Voltaire Perkins Man at bar William Hudson Howard Robert Foulk Motor cop Tom Browne Henry Thomas B. Henry Henderson Richard Deacon Farnsworth + − PRODUCTION CREDITS NAME PARENT COMPANY PRODUCTION COMPANY Universal-International Pictures Co., Inc. DISTRIBUTION COMPANY Universal Pictures Co., inc. NAME CREDITED AS CREDIT DIRECTORS Henry Koster Dir Frank Shaw Asst dir Wilson Shyer Asst dir PRODUCER Ross Hunter Prod WRITERS Everett Freeman Scr Peter Berneis Scr William Bowers Scr PHOTOGRAPHY William Daniels Dir of photog Rollie Lane Stills ART DIRECTORS Alexander Golitzen Art dir Richard H. Riedel Art dir FILM EDITOR Milton Carruth Film ed SET DECORATORS Russell A. Gausman Set dec Julia Heron Set dec Robert Laszlo Bob Laszlo Set dec COSTUMES Bill Thomas Gowns Rose Brandi Ward Martha Bunch Ward Truman Eli Ward MUSIC Frank Skinner Mus Joseph Gershenson Mus supv SOUND Leslie I. Carey Sd Joe Lapis Sd Bob Bratton Sd ed Joe Sikorsky Sd ed Ed Sandlin Sd ed VISUAL EFFECTS Clifford Stine Spec photog MAKEUP Bud Westmore Makeup Jack Kevan Makeup Nick Marcellino Makeup PRODUCTION MISC Norman Deming Unit prod mgr Adele Cannon Scr supv Jason Lindsley Dial coach Don Morgan Unit pub SOURCES LITERARY Based on the novel My Man Godfrey by Eric Hatch (Boston, 1935) and the film My Man Godfrey written by Morrie Ryskind and Eric Hatch (Universal, 1936). LITERARY SOURCE AUTHORS Eric Hatch Morrie Ryskind SONGS "My Man Godfrey," words and music by Peggy Lee and Sonny Burke, sung by Sarah Vaughan; "Lovely," words and music by Joseph Gershenson. PERFORMED BY Sarah Vaughan SONGWRITER/COMPOSER Sonny Burke Joseph Gershenson Peggy Lee DETAILS Alternate Title: Her Man Godfrey Release Date: December 1957 Premiere Information: New York opening: 11 Oct 1957; Los Angeles opening: 18 Oct 1957 Production Date: late Jan--27 Apr 1956 Copyright Info Claimant Date Copyright Number Universal Pictures Co., inc. 11 October 1957 LP9151 Physical Properties: Sound Western Electric Recording Color Eastman Color by Pathé Widescreen/ratio CinemaScope Duration(in mins): 92 Country: United States Language: English PCA No: 18591 SYNOPSIS On the eve of their mother’s charity scavenger hunt, which requires competitors to capture a useless animal, spoiled socialite sisters Irene and Cordelia Bullock compete to capture a goat. Irene follows the goat to the docks, where an apparently vagrant man surprises her. He covers her mouth to keep her from screaming, but when he lets her go, she calmly asks after her goat. Charmed by Irene and eager to avoid police detection, the man introduces himself as Godfrey, and helps her outsmart Cordelia by returning to the party with her as her “animal.” Irene’s flighty mother Angelica presides over the chaos at the contest headquarters, while Alexander, her gruff father, looks on in distaste. Upon seeing Godfrey, the crowd roars its approval and Irene is declared the winner. Flushed with her triumph over Cordelia, Irene follows Godfrey into the crowd and offers him a well-paying job as the family butler, intriguing him further by noting that his bearing reveals him to be a gentleman. The next morning, a now clean-shaven Godfrey enters the Bullock kitchen, where Molly, the jaded maid, warns him that no butler has lasted more than one day with the eccentric family. When she calls Irene a “stray-cat collector,” Godfrey replies that some strays need a leg up. Just after noon, Angelica summons Godfrey, who treats her hangover-inspired hallucinations with empathy, earning her instant admiration. Irene then calls for Godfrey, and although she at first does not recognize him, she soon labels him her protégé. Godfrey then goes downstairs, and when a suspicious Alexander attempts to fire him, Irene defends Godfrey ferociously, finally bursting into tears to force her father to relent. Within weeks, ... More Less On the eve of their mother’s charity scavenger hunt, which requires competitors to capture a useless animal, spoiled socialite sisters Irene and Cordelia Bullock compete to capture a goat. Irene follows the goat to the docks, where an apparently vagrant man surprises her. He covers her mouth to keep her from screaming, but when he lets her go, she calmly asks after her goat. Charmed by Irene and eager to avoid police detection, the man introduces himself as Godfrey, and helps her outsmart Cordelia by returning to the party with her as her “animal.” Irene’s flighty mother Angelica presides over the chaos at the contest headquarters, while Alexander, her gruff father, looks on in distaste. Upon seeing Godfrey, the crowd roars its approval and Irene is declared the winner. Flushed with her triumph over Cordelia, Irene follows Godfrey into the crowd and offers him a well-paying job as the family butler, intriguing him further by noting that his bearing reveals him to be a gentleman. The next morning, a now clean-shaven Godfrey enters the Bullock kitchen, where Molly, the jaded maid, warns him that no butler has lasted more than one day with the eccentric family. When she calls Irene a “stray-cat collector,” Godfrey replies that some strays need a leg up. Just after noon, Angelica summons Godfrey, who treats her hangover-inspired hallucinations with empathy, earning her instant admiration. Irene then calls for Godfrey, and although she at first does not recognize him, she soon labels him her protégé. Godfrey then goes downstairs, and when a suspicious Alexander attempts to fire him, Irene defends Godfrey ferociously, finally bursting into tears to force her father to relent. Within weeks, Molly has fallen in love with Godfrey and the household is running more smoothly than ever thanks to the new butler. Only the jealous Cordelia treats Godfrey with disdain. One day, while Angelica’s freeloading musical protégé Vincent plays the piano, Alexander announces to his family that they must curtail their expenses. At Cordelia’s suggestion that they fire Godfrey, Irene breaks down in fake spasms and insists that Godfrey attend to her. After everyone leaves, she kisses him, but he walks away. Irene follows him to his room, where she explains that she has no suitors because men are afraid of her, but when Godfrey unceremoniously throws her out, she runs off crying. Soon after, Angelica throws a party for her delinquent teen girls’ charity, at which Irene pointedly snubs Godfrey. Attending the party is jet-setter Francesca Gray, who attracts Cordelia’s attention when she recognizes Godfrey, an old friend. Heeding Godfrey’s hints, Francesca pretends that is a former employee, and fabricates a story that he has five children. Jealous of Godfrey's "wife and family," Irene spitefully announces her engagement to a nearsighted boy named Hubert. The next day, Godfrey and Francesca meet at a restaurant, where he explains that, as a titled Austrian, he served at the Austrian Embassy in England, returned to his native country to fight in World War II, and then left to work on a freighter. Hoping to live in America, he then jumped overboard and swam to shore, where he met Irene, and now is living as an illegal alien. Cordelia spots them and interrupts their discussion to crudely accuse Godfrey of having an affair with Francesca, but after he calls her a brat with no taste, she stalks away. Hours later at the Bullock home, Molly reveals to Irene that she, too, has been ejected from Godfrey’s room, and the two commiserate. Godfrey returns home drunk, and while he attempts to carry out his duties without breaking the china, Cordelia hides a diamond bracelet under his bed and then claims it has been stolen. Police Lieutenant O’Connor arrives and, at Cordelia’s insistence, searches Godfrey’s room but finds nothing. When Alexander sees Cordelia react with shock, he quietly pays off the policeman and then informs his daughter that the uninsured bracelet is now lost forever. That night, Alexander calls Godfrey in to apologize for Cordelia, and after the butler confesses his alien status and offers to assist the family in any way, Alexander reveals that he is about to lose his business. Godfrey then visits Francesca, who is engaged to millionaire James Elliott, and offers his land as collateral toward a loan for Alexander. The next night at dinner, Alexander learns that Elliott has suddenly granted him a business loan, but before he can thank Godfrey, the butler announces that he is quitting. He recites to each family member what he or she has taught him: Angelica, generosity; Alexander, patience; Cordelia, the foolishness of arrogance. When he then returns her bracelet to her, Cordelia admits that she hid it and thanks him sincerely. Godfrey announces he is leaving for Europe in the morning, and inspired by his strength of character, Alexander evicts Vincent. Irene packs to accompany Godfrey, and although he admires her desire to help and love him, he confesses his alien status and asks her to let him go. The next morning, the new butler’s dourness depresses the family, and later the police visit with the news that Godfrey has turned himself in and is being deported. Overhearing them state that the only way he can stay is to marry an American, Irene races to the docks, attracting the attention of a traffic cop along the way. At the dock, as the boat pulls away, Godfrey shouts from the deck that though he loves Irene, he does not want to marry her only out of necessity, and promises to return. The policeman, however, takes pity on Irene and escorts her to a tugboat that meets up with Godfrey’s boat. Soon after, the boat’s captain visits Godfrey’s cabin to announce that he must marry the girl that he has shamed, and although Godfrey is annoyed with Irene for lying, he cannot resist kissing her when she steps into the room. Less GENRE Genre: Screwball comedy Subject Subject (Major): Aliens, Illegal Austrians Butlers Family relationships Madcap heiresses Unrequited love Subject (Minor): Bracelets Charities Deportation Drunkenness False accusations Financial crisis Goats Hangovers Jealousy Loans Maids Millionaires Moral reformation Musicians Police Scavenger hunts Sea captains Socialites From AFI's 100 Years Lists... HARVEY (1950) WUTHERING HEIGHTS (1939) THE PINK PANTHER (1964) BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE KID (1969) CAPE FEAR (1962) THE GUNS OF NAVARONE (1961) THE BIRDS (1963) THE BEST YEARS OF OUR LIVES (1946) WHITE HEAT (1949) FATHER OF THE BRIDE (1950) Legend Viewed by AFI Partially Viewed Offscreen Credit Name Occurs Before Title AFI Life Achievement Award DONATE TOP SEARCHES Casablanca In the onscreen credits, actor S. Z. Sakall 's name is incorrectly spelled "S. K. Sakall." HR news items add the following information about the production: ... >> Mr. Smith Goes to Washington According to HR news items, "The Gentleman from Montana" (an unpublished story by Lewis R. Foster, alternately called "The Gentleman from Wyoming" by both contemporary and modern ... >> Rocky The film opens as the name “ROCKY” pans across the screen, filling the frame. A title card then appears, reading "November 25, 1975, Philadelphia." Before the opening cast and ... >> House Party 2 The 20 Apr 1990 HR announced plans by New Line Cinema to make a sequel to its hit release, House Party (1990, see entry), which ... >> KEEP EXPLORING Loans , False accusations , Moral reformation , Deportation , Drunkenness , Socialites , Bracelets , Goats , Family relationships , Maids The American Film Institute is grateful to Sir Paul Getty KBE and the Sir Paul Getty KBE Estate for their dedication to the art of the moving image and their support for the AFI Catalog of Feature Films and without whose support AFI would not have been able to achieve this historical landmark in this epic scholarly endeavor. AMERICAN FILM INSTITUTE The American Film Institute is a 501c3 nonprofit dedicated to celebrating excellence in the art form and to creating national education initiatives that inspire artists and audiences alike. CONTACT US American Film Institute 2021 North Western Avenue Los Angeles, CA 90027-1657 323.856.7600 [email protected] PROGRAMS AFI Catalog AFI Conservatory AFI DOCS AFI FEST AFI Lists AFI Silver Theatre AFI AWARDS AFI Life Achievement Award AFI Movie Club AFI Innovative Programs LEGAL Events Access Disclaimer Privacy Policy Safety at AFI Title IX CAREERS PRESS NEWS VIDEOS MEMBER PORTAL Join the Premiere Circle Donate Update Profile AFI Member All-Access ©2024 AMERICAN FILM INSTITUTE. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.