Olympedia – Cosimo Pinto Toggle navigation Olympedia Athletes Advanced search Horse search Related Olympians Counts Doubles Lists Country representation Athletes Countries Head-to-head Best results Results comparison Countries Games Games Medals Results Opening ceremony Venues Sports Disciplines & Sports Events IOC Organizations Definitions Awards Meetings Host city selection Statistics Medals by country Medals by athlete Medal tables Participations Olympic Records Age records Age at death Lists Today Statistics Feedback Home Athletes Cosimo Pinto Cosimo Pinto Biographical information Roles Competed in Olympic Games Sex Male Full name Cosimo•Pinto Used name Cosimo•Pinto Born 14 March 1943 in Novara, Novara (ITA) Measurements 178 cm / 81 kg Affiliations CS Esercito, Roma (ITA) NOC Italy Medals OG Gold 1 Silver 0 Bronze 0 Total 1 Biography At the beginning of the 1960s Cosimo Pinto, a soldier from Novara, vied with 1960 Olympic bronze medallist Giulio Saraudi for the honour of being Italy’s top amateur light-heavyweight boxer. Pinto’s breakthrough into the highest international class came in 1963 when he won gold at the Mediterranean Games in his home country. He then travelled to Tokyo where he won the Pre-Olympic tournament with a knockout over Japanese fighter Tadayuki Maruyama . Although he had emerged as one of the favourites for the Olympic title, before he could represent Italy in Tokyo, he still had the matter of defeating Sauradi to gain selection. This was duly achieved. At the Olympics Pinto had a relatively straightforward path to the final but then came up against the Soviet Aleksey Kiselyov who had greatly impressed in the preliminary bouts. The fight developed into a fairly negative affair. Two judges awarded the contest to the Italian by a single point whilst the other three had the two men level at 59 points apiece. Two of the tied judges awarded their preference to Kiselyov but crucially the German judge opted for Pinto and the man from Novara was crowned Olympic champion. After the victory in Tokyo Pinto won two Italian championships (1965 and 1967) and in 1967 he was bronze medal winner at the European Championships held in Roma. Pinto decided to retire from boxing prior to the Mexico City Olympics whilst still only 25 years of age to concentrate on his career as a bank official. He received in 2015 the Collare d’Oro for Sporting Merit from the Italian National Olympic Committee (CONI). Results Games Discipline (Sport) / Event NOC / Team Pos Medal As 1964 Summer Olympics Boxing ITA Cosimo Pinto Light-Heavyweight, Men (Olympic) 1 Gold List mentions Listed in Olympians Who Won a Medal at the Mediterranean Games (1–0–0 1963 Napoli BOX gold: light-heavyweight -81 kg) Did you know? The match for 3rd place in boxing was eliminated for the 1952 Olympics. Originally, this also meant the elimination of bronze medals in the sport, but this decision was later reversed, and the losing semi-finalists finally received their medals in 1970. Login | Statistics | About | Image Credits | FAQ | Feedback © OlyMADMen 2006 — 2026