Aerojet Engineering Corporation: Stimulation and Creation, 1935-1942 - NASA Technical Reports Server (NTRS) NTRS NTRS - NASA Technical Reports Server Search more_vert Collections About News Help Login Press Enter or click the Search button to begin your search. Back to Results Aerojet Engineering Corporation: Stimulation and Creation, 1935-1942 There are multiple published accounts of the stimulation and creation of the Aerojet Engineering Corporation that are inconsistent, incomplete, or erroneous in significant details, describing principals involved, timing, and funding of the creation process. This paper corrects the record and offers a well-documented and reliable history of the creation of the Aerojet Engineering Corporation. A small group of academic researchers and technicians, joined by an attorney, working at the California Institute of Technology (Caltech), accomplished the formation and creation of the corporation. The group of six men incorporated and served as initial officers of the Aerojet Engineering Corporation—Dr. Theodore von Karman; Dr. Frank Malina; Dr. Martin Summerfield; John Parsons; Edward Forman; and a Washington, DC, attorney, Andrew Haley. A government-funded program definition study at Caltech generated a proposal to produce a means of providing superior aircraft performance capabilities using rocketry, often referred to as jet propulsion, due to engineering disrepute of “rocketry" prior to WWII. Caltech successfully conducted flight demonstrations at March Field (Riverside, California) in the summer of 1941, leading Drs. von Karman and Malina to discuss and explore the best method to provide for production of jet-assisted takeoff (JATO) rockets with established industrial leaders, as well as industrial organizational alternatives. Von Karman, Malina, Summerfield, Parsons, and Forman continued these discussions until von Karman decided, in early 1942, to solicit the legal advice of Andrew Haley on how to proceed. After meetings at von Karman's home in Pasadena, on Haley's recommendation and using his volunteered initial corporate funding, it was agreed to incorporate the group. Articles of incorporation were drawn up by Haley and on 19 March 1942 were formally filed with the Delaware Secretary of State, establishing the Aerojet Engineering Corporation. Many accounts previously published have distorted or misreported many of the details of the process followed by the group that created the company. It is intended that this paper will be regarded as a fully researched historical account of the creation of the Aerojet Engineering Corporation. Included are the historical environment, the industrial motivations, descriptions of key players, the role of government, and the ultimate confluence of these factors with the motivation of a champion and the availability of the required resources. Document ID 20190032336 Acquisition Source Johnson Space Center Document Type Conference Paper Authors Doyle, Stephen E. (International Inst. of Space Law (IISL) Paris, France) Ciancone, Michael (NASA Johnson Space Center Houston, TX, United States) Date Acquired October 28, 2019 Publication Date October 21, 2019 Subject Category Astronautics (General) Report/Patent Number JSC-E-DAA-TN73983 IAC-19-E4.2.1-53355 Report Number: JSC-E-DAA-TN73983 Report Number: IAC-19-E4.2.1-53355 Meeting Information Meeting: International Astronautical Congress (IAC) Location: Washington, DC Country: United States Start Date: October 21, 2019 End Date: October 25, 2019 Sponsors: International Astronautical Federation (IAF-HQ) Distribution Limits Public Copyright Public Use Permitted. Available Downloads Name Type 20190032336.pdf STI cloud_download content_copy visibility Related Records There are no records associated with this record. visibility_off No Preview Available No Fear Act | Freedom of Information Act | Office of the Inspector General | Agency Financial Reports NASA Web Privacy Policy and Important Notices | NASA Guidelines for Quality of Information Disclaimers, Copyright, Terms of Use | Accessibility | NASA OCIO | USA.gov | NASA.gov Contact Us | Site Map NASA Official: JoAnne R. Calhoun Site Curator: STI Compliance and Distribution Services Last Modified: July 16, 2026