Emma Marcegaglia Skip to main content Publications Global Presence EN Select language EN - English IT - Italiano Search Search Or discover EnergIA , our new artificial intelligence tool. Reserved area Intranet access Yellow Search Search Or discover EnergIA , our new artificial intelligence tool. Investors Investors Go to Strategy Strategy Go to Strategic Plan 2026-2030 Eni's transformation since 2014 Rating ESG Stock and Shareholder remuneration policy Stock and Shareholder remuneration policy Go to Shareholders’ remuneration Eni share Evolution of Share Capital Analyst coverage Reporting and Financial statements Reporting and Financial statements Go to Financial Results and Reports Acquisitions and Disposals Financial Calendar Risk Management Risk Management Go to Integrated Risk Management Main Risks and Financial Risks Sensitivity Factors Debt and Rating Debt and Rating Go to Credit Rating and Debt Debt Capital Market (DCM) documentation Sustainable Finance Investor tools Investor tools Go to Stock tools Financial tools Individual Investors Media Media Go to Press Releases News Media kit Events Stories Editorial Publications Editorial Publications Go to Books Magazines Magazines Go to WE Publishing Multimedia Careers Careers Go to Selection process Working at Eni Working at Eni Go to Onboarding and career paths International Careers Meet the Eni Ambassadors Companies and professional areas Companies and professional areas Go to Working at Versalis Working at Enilive Working at Plenitude Working at EniProgetti Working at Eni Technology, Research & Development and Digital Working at Eni Trade & Biofuels (ETB) Working at Eni México Welfare Training Educational and careers guidance Company Company Go to Our history Brand identity Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Go to Policy Testimonials Initiatives and collaborations Business model Organisational chart Management Eni's main subsidiaries Governance Governance Go to Eni’s Model Board of Directors Board of Directors Go to Committees board of directors Board of Statutory Auditors Governance Rules Governance Rules Go to By-laws Corporate Governance Code Code of Ethics Model 231 Corporate Governance Report Shareholders’ Meeting Shareholders’ Meeting Go to Archive of Shareholders' Meetings Shareholders Controls and Risks Controls and Risks Go to Internal Control and Risk Management System Eni Regulatory System Anti-Corruption Antitrust Consumer Protection & Green Claims Financial Reporting Officer 231 Supervisory Body Internal Audit Audit firm Remuneration Management of whistleblowing reports Transactions with related parties Market Abuse Market Abuse Go to Managers’ transactions Archive (2006 to 2014) Eni SpA Relevant Managers Sustainability Sustainability Go to Commitment to sustainability Commitment to sustainability Go to Sustainability management Climate and decarbonisation Climate and decarbonisation Go to Oil & Gas Decarbonisation Partnerships and advocacy initiatives Carbon Offset Solutions Environmental Protection Environmental Protection Go to Biodiversity Water Resources Land and air Circular economy People and community People and community Go to Respect for human rights Eni people Health Safety Alliances for development Suppliers and customers Transparency and integrity Reporting and performances Reporting and performances Go to Sustainability reporting Publications Global Presence Login Reserved area Intranet access Yellow Yellow login Select language EN IT Company Company Go to Our history Brand identity Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Go to Policy Testimonials Initiatives and collaborations Business model Organisational chart Management Eni's main subsidiaries BRAND IDENTITY The Six-Legged Dog: Eni's brand identity and history Company We are an integrated energy company committed to the energy transition with solid actions for carbon neutrality by 2050 Governance Governance Go to Eni’s Model Board of Directors Board of Directors Go to Committees board of directors Board of Statutory Auditors Governance Rules Governance Rules Go to By-laws Corporate Governance Code Code of Ethics Model 231 Corporate Governance Report Shareholders’ Meeting Shareholders’ Meeting Go to Archive of Shareholders' Meetings Shareholders Controls and Risks Controls and Risks Go to Internal Control and Risk Management System Eni Regulatory System Anti-Corruption Antitrust Consumer Protection & Green Claims Financial Reporting Officer 231 Supervisory Body Internal Audit Audit firm Remuneration Management of whistleblowing reports Transactions with related parties Market Abuse Market Abuse Go to Managers’ transactions Archive (2006 to 2014) Eni SpA Relevant Managers Code of Ethics The Code defines the values and principles that guide the work of Eni, of its people and of those that contribute to the achievement of its goals 2026 Shareholders' Meeting Eni’s Ordinary and Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting was held on 6 May 2026 in Rome, Piazzale Mattei 1 Sustainability Sustainability Go to Commitment to sustainability Commitment to sustainability Go to Sustainability management Climate and decarbonisation Climate and decarbonisation Go to Oil & Gas Decarbonisation Partnerships and advocacy initiatives Carbon Offset Solutions Environmental Protection Environmental Protection Go to Biodiversity Water Resources Land and air Circular economy People and community People and community Go to Respect for human rights Eni people Health Safety Alliances for development Suppliers and customers Transparency and integrity Reporting and performances Reporting and performances Go to Sustainability reporting ENI FOR 2025 Read the special report: practical choices that combine business and sustainability to turn strategy into shared value Sustainability We create value for today and for the future by contributing to providing affordable energy in a sustainable way for people and the environment Vision Vision Go to Mission and values People and Partnerships Net Zero Satellite model Accessible energy Accessible energy Go to Gas in Eni's strategy Security of supply Technology neutrality principle Fair and sustainable energy for a growing world Innovation Innovation Go to Research and technological innovation Digitalisation Eni Awards Global energy scenarios Global energy scenarios Go to World Energy Review Gas and the global energy scenario SATELLITE MODEL The creation of specialized companies accelerates both new and traditional businesses Vision We offer increasingly decarbonized energy products and services, thanks to our industry leading technologies and investment in research and innovation Actions Actions Go to Energy Diversification Energy Diversification Go to Oil & Gas Renewable sources Bioenergy Hydrogen Magnetic confinement fusion Technologies for the transition Technologies for the transition Go to Biofuels Biofuels Go to Advanced biofuel production process Carbon capture, utilization and storage Renewable energy Renewable energy Go to Solar thermal energy Energy storage Sustainable chemistry Supercomputing and Artificial Intelligence Supercomputing and Artificial Intelligence Go to Supercomputer Robotics Geosciences Geosciences Go to Experimental geosciences Digital geosciences Environmental remediation Environmental remediation Go to Remediation of hydrocarbons in groundwater Land remediation Bioremediation of chlorinated solvents in groundwater Partnership for innovation Partnership for innovation Go to Universities, research centers and companies Open Innovation Activities around the world Activities around the world Go to Africa Africa Algeria Algeria Go to Bir Rebaa North Angola Angola Go to West Hub and East Hub Cote d'Ivoire Cote d'Ivoire Go to Baleine Educational project Improved cookstoves Health Protection Egypt Egypt Go to Nooros Zohr Local development Ghana Ghana Go to OCTP Educational projects Livelihood Restoration Plan Okuafo Pa Agricultural training Kenya Libya Mozambique Mozambique Go to Coral North Coral South Rovuma LNG Economic diversification Education projects Energy efficiency Prores Nigeria Republic of Congo Republic of Congo Go to Congo LNG Marine XII Access to energy Hinda Integrated Project Supporting culture Tunisia Tunisia Go to Adam Tataouine Americas Americas Argentina Mexico Mexico Go to Area 1 Local development United States Asia and Oceania Asia and Oceania Australia Australia Go to Katherine Land protection Indonesia Indonesia Go to Jangkrik Merakes Local development Iraq Iraq Go to Access to water Educational project Health protection Kazakhstan Kazakhstan Go to Badamsha Karachaganak Kashagan United Arab Emirates United Arab Emirates Go to Ghasha Ruwais Qatar Europe Europe Austria Belgium Cyprus France Germany Greece Italy Italy Go to Gela Livorno Porto Torres Priolo Ravenna Sannazzaro Taranto Venezia Porto Marghera Netherlands Norway Spain Switzerland United Kingdom United Kingdom Go to HyNet North West Liverpool Bay Activities around the world We are a global company that operates in 62 countries, creating and developing innovative projects alongside local communities Actions We are working towards energy transition through groundbreaking solutions, proprietary technologies, new business models and global partnerships Products Products Go to Home Businesses Mobility Sustainable Business Products for business energy efficiency products Our vision and actions lead to increasingly sustainable products, services and energy solutions Investors Investors Go to Strategy Strategy Go to Strategic Plan 2026-2030 Eni's transformation since 2014 Rating ESG Stock and Shareholder remuneration policy Stock and Shareholder remuneration policy Go to Shareholders’ remuneration Eni share Evolution of Share Capital Analyst coverage Reporting and Financial statements Reporting and Financial statements Go to Financial Results and Reports Acquisitions and Disposals Financial Calendar Risk Management Risk Management Go to Integrated Risk Management Main Risks and Financial Risks Sensitivity Factors Debt and Rating Debt and Rating Go to Credit Rating and Debt Debt Capital Market (DCM) documentation Sustainable Finance Investor tools Investor tools Go to Stock tools Financial tools Individual Investors EVENT 2026 Second Quarter Results Investors Announcements, financial events, reports, results and useful information for our investors Media Media Go to Press Releases News Media kit Events Stories Editorial Publications Editorial Publications Go to Books Magazines Magazines Go to WE Publishing Multimedia ENI FOR 2025 Read the special report: practical choices that combine business and sustainability to turn strategy into shared value Media News, press releases, stories, events, publications and multimedia to tell our story and describe the changing world of energy Careers Careers Go to Selection process Working at Eni Working at Eni Go to Onboarding and career paths International Careers Meet the Eni Ambassadors Companies and professional areas Companies and professional areas Go to Working at Versalis Working at Enilive Working at Plenitude Working at EniProgetti Working at Eni Technology, Research & Development and Digital Working at Eni Trade & Biofuels (ETB) Working at Eni México Welfare Training Educational and careers guidance Eni Masters Discover our training programmes in partnership with Italian universities, placing people at the centre of future skills careers EniJobs is the new platform where you can apply for all Eni job offers and Master programs. Join a global energy tech company Yellow login Login Access with password Rapid Access Back Governance Emma Marcegaglia Independent Non-executive Director Share Director elected from the list presented by Romano Minozzi and his subsidiaries. Born in Mantova in 1965, she has been an Eni Director since May 2026. She is Chair and Chief Executive Officer of Marcegaglia Holding Srl; Vice-Chair and Chief Executive Officer of Marcegaglia Steel and its subsidiaries operating in the steel processing sector; and also she serves as Chair and Chief Executive Officer of Marcegaglia Investments. She is currently a member of the Executive Committee of BIAC, an OECD advisory body; she is also Vice-Chair of ISPI, the Italian Institute for International Political Studies. She is also a Director of Bracco SpA, Gabetti Property Solutions SpA, Prysmian SpA, Campari SpA, Gazzetta di Mantova Srl and ISOPAN SpA. Experience She served as Chair of Eni SpA from 2014 to 2020, as well as of Luiss University from 2010 to 2019 and of Confindustria from 2008 to 2012. During Italy’s G20 presidency in 2021, she was appointed Chair of the B20, the G20 engagement group that brings together companies from member countries, following her designation by Confindustria. She was the first woman to hold this position. In 2024, she was appointed Chair of the B7 during Italy’s G7 presidency, again on the recommendation of Confindustria, which acted as the sole organiser of the G7 Business Summit. She served as Chair of BusinessEurope, the association representing European business federations, from 2013 to 2017. She graduated with honours in Business Economics from Milan’s Bocconi University and attended the International Management Program – Master of Business Administration at New York University. Continue reading Reduce Publications Biography of Emma Marcegaglia PDF (98.83 KB) Share Share Emma Marcegaglia - High resolution image JPG (14.81 MB) Share Share Last update: 18 May 2026 Eni.com is a digitally designed platform that offers an immediate overview of Eni's activities. It addresses everyone, recounting in a transparent and accessible way the values, commitment and perspectives of a global technology company for the energy transition. Discover our mission POLICIES Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Info Reserved Area Registered Head Office Piazzale Enrico Mattei,1 00144 Rome, Italy Company Share Capital € 4,005,358,876.00 paid up Tax Identification Number VAT Number 00905811006 Branches Via Emilia, 1 and Piazza Ezio Vanoni, 1 20097 San Donato Milanese, Milan, Italy Rome Company Register 00484960588 OTHER LINKS Contacts FAQ Accessibility Calendar Newsletter Artificial Intelligence Scams and Phishing Whistleblowing eniSpace Remit Download document Clear chat If you want to change topic, clear the chat and make a new query to receive more relevant results. This will delete the question history. Ok Clear chat If you want to change topic, clear the chat and make a new query to receive more relevant results. This will delete the question history. Cancel Accept My searches Here you can find the full list of your queries. Ok The answers are generated by artificial intelligence, therefore they may contain inaccuracies. Please read the terms and conditions of use . Hide A window into Eni’s world EnergIA is an innovative tool based on artificial intelligence capabilities, which can help you navigate the contents of eni.com, quickly finding answers to your questions. EnergIA can also perform a search on a specific topic, providing the most up-to-date data available, or it can invite you to delve deeper into a topic of your interest by suggesting links and specific readings. Start now! EnergIA is an innovative tool based on artificial intelligence capabilities, which can help you navigate the contents of eni.com, quickly finding answers to your questions. Start now! Type your question here, and I’ll do my best to answer you! Ask a question Ask a question Disclaimer Find out how it works Disclaimer The content made available by Eni through the use of EnergIA (“ AI Contents ”) is generated by artificial intelligence. By using this service, the user acknowledges that they have read and accepted the terms and conditions for AI Contents available at the following link: terms and conditions of use. How does EnergIA work? EnergIA (ener'dʒia) is a system based on Generative Artificial Intelligence. Thanks to this technology, we can respond to your requests by querying the most relevant content and documents available on eni.com. (Note: financial documents from the last 12 months and press releases from the last 2 years are considered.) Through EnergIA, you can delve into topics of interest and have a real-time window into the world of Eni. If you wish to search for a specific document, press release or news, use the traditional search engine via the magnifying glass icon. Like all systems that leverage Generative Artificial Intelligence, EnergIA may generate inaccurate or outdated responses. Always consult the sources that EnergIA proposes as the origin of the generated information. If the system fails to find an exact match for the requested content, it still tends to provide a response. If you find any inaccuracies in the provided response, please send us your feedback at the bottom of the page: it will be very helpful for us to improve. Remember that the content generated by the system does not represent Eni’s official position. We therefore invite stakeholders to refer to their designated contacts for official statements: Press Office for journalists, Investor Relations for analysts and investors, Company Secretariat for shareholders etc.. EnergIA can understand questions posed in almost all languages, but we prefer to provide you with a response in English or Italian, the two languages available on eni.com. If you ask a question in Italian, the content on the site in Italian will be consulted. If you ask it in English or any other language, the content in English will be consulted. (Note: the language Eni uses for financial documents/content is predominantly English.) If questions are formulated that violate the set security criteria, the system will not proceed with processing the response. Please remember not to send personal data. By using this service, the users acknowledge that they have read and accepted the terms and conditions of use . Disclaimer Find out how it works Search Back My searches Ask a question The answers are generated by artificial intelligence, therefore they may contain inaccuracies. Please read the terms and conditions of use . Ask a question Ask a question How does EnergIA work? EnergIA (ener'dʒia) is a system based on Generative Artificial Intelligence. Thanks to this technology, we can respond to your requests by querying the most relevant content and documents available on eni.com. (Note: financial documents from the last 12 months and press releases from the last 2 years are considered.) Through EnergIA, you can delve into topics of interest and have a real-time window into the world of Eni. If you wish to search for a specific document, press release or news, use the traditional search engine via the magnifying glass icon. Like all systems that leverage Generative Artificial Intelligence, EnergIA may generate inaccurate or outdated responses. Always consult the sources that EnergIA proposes as the origin of the generated information. If the system fails to find an exact match for the requested content, it still tends to provide a response. If you find any inaccuracies in the provided response, please send us your feedback at the bottom of the page: it will be very helpful for us to improve. Remember that the content generated by the system does not represent Eni’s official position. We therefore invite stakeholders to refer to their designated contacts for official statements: Press Office for journalists, Investor Relations for analysts and investors, Company Secretariat for shareholders etc.. EnergIA can understand questions posed in almost all languages, but we prefer to provide you with a response in English or Italian, the two languages available on eni.com. If you ask a question in Italian, the content on the site in Italian will be consulted. If you ask it in English or any other language, the content in English will be consulted. (Note: the language Eni uses for financial documents/content is predominantly English.) If questions are formulated that violate the set security criteria, the system will not proceed with processing the response. Please remember not to send personal data. By using this service, the users acknowledge that they have read and accepted the terms and conditions of use . Disclaimer The content made available by Eni through the use of EnergIA (“ AI Contents ”) is generated by artificial intelligence. By using this service, the user acknowledges that they have read and accepted the terms and conditions for AI Contents available at the following link: terms and conditions of use. Type your question here, and I’ll do my best to answer you! Ask a question Use Eni’s artificial intelligence A window into Eni’s world, at your disposal. EnergIA is an innovative tool based on artificial intelligence capabilities, which can help you navigate the contents of eni.com, quickly finding answers to your questions. START Modal Disclaimer Titolo messaggio Lorem ipsum Checkbox default Azione principale Azione principale Azione principale