Occultist father of rocketry 'written out' of Nasa's history | WIRED Skip to main content SECURITY POLITICS THE BIG STORY BUSINESS SCIENCE CULTURE REVIEWS Newsletters Security Politics The Big Story Business Science Culture Reviews More The Big Interview Magazine Events WIRED Insider WIRED Consulting Newsletters Podcasts Video Livestreams Merch Search Olivia Solon Science Apr 23, 2014 8:53 AM Occultist father of rocketry 'written out' of Nasa's history Shutterstock Save this story Save this story Parsons came to believe in magic, a force that he felt could be explained through quantum physics As Parsons' interest in the occult developed, his colleague Malina approached the National Academy of Sciences for funding into "jet propulsion" as a means for developing more nimble aircraft. The team was granted $1,000 (£595 at today's exchange) -- the first government-funded rocketry research group in history. A quarter of the funding had to go towards repairing damage to Caltech buildings caused by the group's experiments and the group was eventually forced to relocate to some iron sheds in the Arroyo Seco canyon, where they were closely watched by the FBI which was keen to make sure that no political extremists were accessing the explosives. It was here that the Jet Propulsion Laboratory would be founded. One of the group's key innovations was developing Jet-Assisted Take Off (JATO) engines for the US Air Corps, with Parsons developing a restricted burning solid rocket fuel that was stable enough to be stored indefinitely. The engine technology and fuel were commercialised through a company called Aerojet, where Parsons became project engineer. Versions of this fuel was eventually used by Nasa in the Space Shuttle as well as in military ballistic missiles. Hedonistic Pasadena lodge At the same time -- 1941 -- Parsons started to have a sexual relationship with his wife's Helen's 17-year-old sister Sara -- something that was encouraged by his church. His wife started a relationship with one of the church's most senior members, Talbot Smith. The four of them, along with other Thelemites ended up moving into a large house together in Pasadena. Drugs flowed freely, as did sexual partners. The lodge attracted negative attention, with the police and FBI receiving allegations that it played host to a cult involved in sexual orgies and black magic -- although upon investigation, it was deemed not to represent a threat to national security. The US government heard that Nazi Germany was developing the V-2 rocket and so gave the GALCIT rocket research group -- now without Parsons -- a grant to develop rocket-based weapons and the group was renamed the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. At around that time Parsons was expelled from Aerojet by new majority shareholders who disapproved of his "unorthodox and unsafe working methods". Parsons and Forman moved onto found the Ad Astra Engineering Company. In 1945, science fiction writer -- and later the founder of Scientology -- L Ron Hubbard moved into the Pasadena lodge. Sara took an interest in Hubbard, which made Parsons jealous. He developed a deeper interest in witchcraft and the darker side of magic, becoming fascinated by poltergeists and ghostly apparitions. In a bid to find conjure up a new lover, he took part in extraordinary rituals where he would masturbate onto magical tablets to the sound of music. "After his girlfriend ran off with Hubbard, he decided to create his own girlfriend and summon an elemental," explains Pendle. Poetry for his 'elemental' After one such ritual in 1946, Parsons decided that he had managed to conjure up his perfect woman. So when he came into contact with Marjorie Cameron, he was convinced she was the one. "He felt as though his elemental had arrived," says Pendle. Cameron had no idea that she had been "invoked" in this way. She became his muse and was the subjet of a book of poetry Parsons wrote at the time. "When you think about scientists, you don't think of them as necessariy being fun or having a creative side. But Parsons saw himself of being at the end of the line of a group of scientists stretching back to Newton, who saw himself as a natural philosopher," explains Pendle. " Newton wrote about alchemy . Poetry used to be part of what the scientist was. He was a renaissance man with a whole swathe of interest." When Parsons worked on his rocketry experiments in the desert he would recite a pagan poem to Pan. Pendle doesn't see this as particularly strange, saying, "They were all young guys, it would have been like going into a huddle and shouting the name of your team." Parsons' financial fortune fell apart after he invested his life savings in co-founding a company with Hubbard and Sara -- his ex-girlfriend and her current primary partner. Hubbard convinced Parsons he was going to buy yachts and resell them at a profit, but this never happened. Parsons lost the vast majority of his money in the scam, the company fell apart and eventually Hubbard and Sara went on to found Scientology together. Shunned in the Cold War Parsons remained a specialist in rocketry and was often called as an expert witness in police investigations involving explosives. "He was good with things that went boom -- so au fait with rockets and explosives," says Pendle. As the Cold War set in, any academics suspected of being communist sympathisers were frozen out. Parsons and many of his colleagues lost their security clearance, leaving him unemployed. He found himself earning money as a manual labourer, a hospital orderly and a car mechanic. Having been pushed out of science, Parsons became even more deeply entrenched in the occult. He ended up applying his skills to create pyrotechnics and explosives for the film industry. Just before a planned trip to Mexico in 1952, Parsons -- who was 37 -- received a large order of explosives for a movie. While preparing the order, there was an explosion involving mercury in which Parsons suffered fatal wounds -- some of his friends suspected a state-sponsored consipiracy although it was ruled an accident. To mark the centenary of Jack Parson's birth in 1914, Fulgur Press is publishing a collection of Parsons' poems -- Songs for the Witch Woman -- which he wrote about Marjorie Cameron. It provides an intimate glimpse into the final years of their relationship which was cut short by his untimely death. Cameron provides the illustrations. "In the poems, he's writing to what he saw as a magical creature," explains Pendle. "Parsons uses imagery that is pretty far out," says Pendle, mentioning a "vision of a girl and goat dancing together in a satanic ritual", where the girl is more fearsome than the goat she's dancing with. "This is how he saw his relationship with Cameron. She was a girl he'd summoned but he was also terrified of her." Many of the poems are "about a hidden world beyond the view of normal mortals", Pendle says. "Parsons had his rocketry as well as his normal life. He discovered other worlds by imagining going in a rocket to the Moon. He wanted to explore this new frontier. He saw both space and magic as ways of exploring these new frontiers -- one breaking free from Earth literally and metaphysically." In the end it was Parsons poetry and other interests that ended his career in rocketry. "The government doesn't really want any people with quirkiness," says Pendle. "With all of the rumours about the Pasadena lodge, the magic and chanting poems at rockets, he couldn't fit into a government job." In Pendle's view, Parsons is the founding father of rocketry and should be recognised as such. This sentiment is echoed by a number of his colleagues, including Wernher von Braun and Malina, who felt as though his contributions to American space technology had been neglected. "If you are looking for a conspiracy it's not his death, it's why he's been wiped from history. There is much more room for mavericks now than there was in the 1940s and 50s." , there's no mention of him as a founder," continues Pendle. "He may be referenced briefly in the footnotes, but it's the occult side of his life that keeps his light burning, not the science." Wired.co.uk contacted JPL and we asked whether Parsons had been written out of the history books. Historian Erik Conway said: "Jack Parsons is included in history books and other venues, and in fact, his role is discussed in the JPL-involved standard history, JPL and the American Space Program by Clayton R. Koppes. Parsons was one of the original founders of JPL. He was the team's chemist and developed the first castable solid propellant used to power aircraft." You can find out more about Songs for the Witch Woman here. This article was originally published by WIRED UK Olivia Solon is a multimedia journo, blogger and geek with a penchant for animal-themed t-shirts. And News Editor of Wired.co.uk ... Read More News Editor, Wired.co.uk Topics space NASA science Read More Astronomers Discover the Existence of a Black Hole Star An object observed by the James Webb Space Telescope lends credence to a strange explanation for the mysterious red spots in the early universe. Jorge Garay It’s Never Too Early to Start Planning for the Next Two Solar Eclipses In 2027 and 2028, there will be two spectacular, long-duration solar eclipses. Here’s what you need to know about them. Jorge Garay Someone Finally Fixed Installing Apps on a Mac The installation utility EasyDMG makes it so you never drag and drop an icon again. Justin Pot Inside the Experimental Traps Scientists Set for Ghostly Neutrinos Observatories have been built in mines, deep under the Antarctic ice sheet, and elsewhere in an effort to detect the fleeting particles. Simon Frantz This Beautifully Weird Necklace Is Secretly a USB Drive Noware’s Puff necklace whimsically reimagines flash drives, turning something functional into personalized jewelry. Reece Rogers Instapaper, the Original Read-It-Later App, Just Got a Huge Upgrade New fonts, better customization, and a whole new layout all make it worth dusting off your Instapaper account. David Nield I Upgraded My Apple Watch Without Buying a New One These are the Apple Watch accessories I recommend adding to your setup. Boutayna Chokrane Zyzz Was the Original Looksmaxxer. His Rise and Untimely Death Feel More Relevant Than Ever A new Apple documentary explores the life of Aziz “Zyzz” Shavershian, who rocketed to internet fame in an age before influencers, then died at age 22 in 2011. Miles Klee I Tested a Ton of Apple Watch Bands So You Don’t Have To We’ve been testing bands since the first Apple Watch launched in 2015. From silicone sports straps to leather bands, I’ve rounded up the best for every occasion. Boutayna Chokrane Puerto Rico Is Rationing Water. It Could’ve Avoided It by Harvesting Rainwater The island could capture billions of gallons of water a year if it implemented systems to catch it as it falls from the sky. Yessenia Funes Amazon Can Use Your Twitch Content to Train Its AI—Unless You Opt Out When Twitch announced that streamers could opt out, thousands of users questioned why their content was being used to train AI models in the first place. Fernanda González Google Workspace Promo Codes for August 2026 Boost your productivity and save with exclusive Google Workspace coupons from WIRED. Get up to 14% off plans for three months, including Starter, Standard, and Plus tiers. Luke Larsen WIRED is obsessed with what comes next. Through rigorous investigations and game-changing reporting, we tell stories that don’t just reflect the moment—they help create it. When you look back in 10, 20, even 50 years, WIRED will be the publication that led the story of the present, mapped the people, products, and ideas defining it, and explained how those forces forged the future. WIRED: For Future Reference. More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Livestreams Travel FAQ Contact Us WIRED Staff WIRED Education Editorial Standards Archive RSS Site Map Accessibility Help Reviews and Guides Reviews Buying Guides Streaming Guides Wearables Coupons Advertise Manage Account Jobs Press Center Condé Nast Store User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights © 2026 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices Select international site United States Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia