We Know How 'Valerian' Got Made—But Not Why It Failed | WIRED Skip to main content SECURITY POLITICS THE BIG STORY BUSINESS SCIENCE CULTURE REVIEWS Newsletters Security Politics The Big Story Business Science Culture Reviews More The Big Interview Magazine Events WIRED Insider WIRED Consulting Newsletters Podcasts Video Livestreams Merch Search Adam Rogers Culture Jul 24, 2017 7:00 AM We Know How Valerian Got Made—But Not Why It Failed Luc Besson's newest seems like a critical and commercial dud. But that's how his other movies started out too. Vikram Gounassegarin/STX Entertainment Save this story Save this story Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets flopped. At least that’s the way things look after the opening weekend of the Luc Besson-written and -directed sci-fi film: It headed into Monday with just about $17 million in receipts and a splattery 54 percent on Rotten Tomatoes (and a better audience score of 60 percent, to be fair). Now, I spent bits and pieces of the last two years working on a print feature about Besson and Valerian . But it wasn't exactly about the film itself; by the time I had put my story to bed, I’d only seen about 20 minutes of the actual movie. This is a not-so-secret secret of print magazine features: The lead time of monthly magazines like WIRED means that the journalism is often done before the film. So I wrote a story more about Besson and the weirdness of international film financing. This weekend, though, after getting home from Comic-Con , I finally saw Valerian . Forget about the movie’s financial health for a moment; the real question is, is it any good? Related Stories Movies Valerian's Biggest PR Problem: It Did Everything First Adam Rogers Movies Luc Besson Just Showed 7 Minutes of Valerian at Hall H Peter Rubin Movies Luc Besson's Valerian Is Exactly What Hollywood Needs Right Now Angela Watercutter And I think the answer is: kind of. Maybe? It was a mostly fun B-movie. Besson’s signature delirious visuals and propulsive storytelling, sacrificing sense for speed, are all there—except in the scenes where computer-generated aliens fight with each other, which are a snooze. I’m shocked, though, at Besson’s unusual missteps in casting. The supporting characters are all as weird as usual (Herbie Hancock!), but in Dane DeHaan and Cara Delevingne ... well, Besson has not found another Bruce Willis-Milla Jovovich action romance . No matter how many times DeHaan tells us he's a swashbuckling rogue, or Delevingne says she hates procedure and believes in love, they ain’t selling it. I’ve been trying to swap them out in my head—Kit Harrington from Game of Thrones and Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.’s Chloe Bennet, or Anthony Mackie from the Marvel movies and Supergirl’s Melissa Benoist—and every dreamcasting I try makes for a better viewing experience. During our conversations, Besson insisted to me that what made his movies feel so different was injecting emotional subtext into high-octane action. Nikita doesn’t want to kill people; Lucy's superpowers so disconnect her from humanity that she can’t even enjoy driving in a Paris car chase. But maybe taking human actors out of the equation and replacing them with CG spaceships—or Rihanna-voiced protoplasmic jellyfish creatures—makes that impossible. Or maybe Besson just doesn’t edit humanity into pew-pew with the deftness of a J.J. Abrams or Patty Jenkins. (Though the big VFX fight between Wonder Woman and Ares is the worst part of that otherwise terrific movie.) Neither The Fifth Element nor Lucy —Besson’s other cult science fiction movies—fared particularly well at the domestic box office or under the blistering keyboards of US critics. Now, though, both play frequently on cable, and have both become more compulsive: Like I said in my story, if channel surfing takes you to Fifth Element , you stop clicking and dive in. The same holds true for Lucy . Given those predecessors, Valerian seems to have at least a shot at aging well. It has the quirks and gee-whiz moments that grab you in its predecessors. So for a moment, ignore the fact that it cost over $200 million to make. I think it might mature into a movie that people keep watching. Otherwise, it's another Jupiter Ascending , a singular directorial vision applied to a highly designed sci-fi epic that just plain sucked. Besson wrote the script, pored meticulously over the production designs, and directed it in his usual painstaking way. Through his production company, Besson essentially financed it himself (primarily by selling foreign distribution rights in advance). That means no blaming studio executive notes for the final product. This is what unfettered creative output looks like—for better or worse. In my original pitch to my bosses to write a feature about Valerian , I said the movie was either going to be the most awesomest goddamn thing since Guardians of the Galaxy or a catastrophic, David-Lynch’s- Dune -why-God-why disaster—and either way it’d be a story. If nothing else, it'd give us a chance to figure out how expensive epic movies get financed. I think I got close to figuring out the latter. As for the former, well, maybe the cable viewing audience of 2037 will be able to answer that with a click. Or without one. Comments Back to top Join the discussion Comments Back to top Adam Rogers writes about science and miscellaneous geekery. Before coming to WIRED, Rogers was a Knight Science Journalism Fellow at MIT and a reporter for Newsweek. He is the author of The New York Times science bestseller Proof: The Science of Booze. ... Read More Former Senior Correspondent Read More The 9 Best Movies to Stream This Month Avatar Aang, Heartstopper Forever, and Exit 8 are among the films deserving of your eyeballs this month. Matt Kamen The Odyssey Was Made for Imax 70mm. Good Luck Watching It That Way Over the last several years, the Imax format has taken on a few different forms—but only a few dozen theaters are capable of screening it in its full glory. Corey Atad ‘Everyone Is Doing It’: The Truth About AI in Hollywood Puck’s Matthew Belloni says AI has quietly become part of everyday filmmaking. The battle now isn’t whether Hollywood will use the technology—it’s who controls what’ll come next. Katie Drummond People Are Getting Off to Porn About ICE Raids MAGA-coded adult content playing off immigration crackdowns, white supremacy, and obeying the “natural order” is finding rabid audiences on X. Jason Parham The Gender War Over Obsession Has Come for Theme Parks Debate over the true villain in Obsession is raging again after Universal Studios announced the movie’s female lead will be featured at an upcoming Halloween event. Miles Klee Mark Zuckerberg’s AI Manifesto Is 6,500 Words—and Barely Says Anything AI is shifting the culture, from tech CEO manifestos to 1 am job interviews. We unpack some of the latest, along with the top findings from Black Hat and Defcon, this week on Uncanny Valley . Brian Barrett The Outlaw Chemist Teaching People How to Make Drugs From Scratch Willy Myco has made over 120 videos showing people his exact process for making everything from LSD to DMT vapes. Not everyone’s a fan of his methods. Mattha Busby The Painful Truth of Exactly How ICE’s New Shock Gloves Work ICE is spending millions on shock gloves designed to overpower subjects through intense, localized pain. Jeremy White The Complicated Case of Passing On Your Digital Estate There’s no perfect way to transfer possession of your digital assets to your loved ones after you’re gone. But there are things you can do now to make the process easier for them. Jill Duffy ICE’s DNA Collection Increases, SpaceX’s Rocket Crashes Into the Moon, and the AI Backlash Grows In today’s episode of Uncanny Valley , we discuss how ICE has been collecting DNA samples of people who have no criminal convictions, including children, which end up in an FBI database indefinitely. Brian Barrett It Looks Like Nothing Can Dent MAGA’s Support for ICE Despite weeks of renewed press coverage and controversy around ICE, Donald Trump’s supporters appear to be standing by the agency no matter what. David Gilbert You’re Thinking About Online Trends All Wrong From pessimism around dating to AI reshaping culture, cyber-ethnographer Ruby J. Thelot tells WIRED why people are putting too much stock into things that go viral. Jason Parham WIRED is obsessed with what comes next. Through rigorous investigations and game-changing reporting, we tell stories that don’t just reflect the moment—they help create it. When you look back in 10, 20, even 50 years, WIRED will be the publication that led the story of the present, mapped the people, products, and ideas defining it, and explained how those forces forged the future. WIRED: For Future Reference. More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Livestreams Travel FAQ Contact Us WIRED Staff WIRED Education Editorial Standards Archive RSS Site Map Accessibility Help Reviews and Guides Reviews Buying Guides Streaming Guides Wearables Coupons Advertise Manage Account Jobs Press Center Condé Nast Store User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights © 2026 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices Select international site United States Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia