Adam Goldberg Returns to Rom-Coms With No Way Jose | Vogue Skip to main content Your All Access Pass GET THE APP Menu FASHION RUNWAY SHOPPING BEAUTY CULTURE LIVING VOGUE BUSINESS TEEN VOGUE FASHION Celebrity Style Street Style Models Designers Trends Sustainability All Fashion RUNWAY SHOPPING BEAUTY Celebrity Beauty Hair Makeup Nails Wellness Skin All Beauty CULTURE Opinion TV & Movies Music Arts Books News Sports All Culture LIVING Homes Travel Food Parties Royals All Living WEDDINGS Wedding Inspiration Planning & Advice For Wedding Guests The Bridal Shop All Weddings VOGUE BUSINESS Technology Sustainability Fashion Retail Companies Beauty Events Member Benefits Executive Reports VIDEO PHOTOVOGUE MORE NEWSLETTERS PODCAST MAGAZINE PROJECTS VOGUE ARCHIVE TEEN VOGUE Search Contact Us About Vogue TV & Movies Adam Goldberg Returns to Rom-Coms With No Way Jose By Jessie Heyman July 8, 2015 Photo: Courtesy of Sony Pictures Save this story Save this story Adam Goldberg is the consummate “the guy from . . .” He’s the guy from Dazed and Confused. He’s the guy from The Hebrew Hammer and from 2 Days in Paris. He's the guy from Friends. (He played Chandler’s crazy roommate .) As you continue playing the game, however, you realize that while you may want to label the misanthropic motormouth as the funny, neurotic, often cigarette-smoking side character, that’s not the whole story. The truth is, he’s the guy who’s difficult to pin down. “There are lots of ways that I feel misidentified,” Goldberg told us by phone. “It gets difficult when the roles start to overlap too much, and trying to find something that really delineates one from the other is definitely a struggle.” While his acting résumé is diverse—he has played a murderous mobster, a loveably paranoid New Yorker, and everything in between—when it comes to directing, Goldberg’s penchant for ambitious, stylized, and introspective art is on full display. When he was 24, he wrote his first film, Scotch and Milk, which premiered in 1998. “I know this sounds really pretentious, but it was really important to me to make a movie by the time I was 25 because it was, like, Orson Welles’s age [when he made Citizen Kane ],” he said. The film, a black-and-white, nonlinear noir that “had moments of comedy,” wasn’t a commercial hit. “Major distributors walked out the second the film premiered because it was in black and white.” Five years later, when he premiered his second feature, I Love Your Work, things were, in the beginning, looking up. “It had gotten into the Toronto Film Festival, but people were somewhat taken aback because they were expecting something more funny.” no way jose adam goldberg Photo: Courtesy of Sony Pictures After twelve years, Goldberg, now 44, has a new film out. With No Way Jose, which Goldberg directed, cowrote with newcomer Sarah Kate Levy, and stars in, the actor tried something a little different: he went smaller and more naturalistic, drawing on some of his more successful roles. “This was more of an attempt to see what I can do where I can kind of offer myself services that I’ve offered in some sense to other filmmakers,” he said. The resulting film is a quirky, “coming-of-middle-age story,” with Goldberg in the titular role—an erstwhile indie rocker now relegated to playing children’s birthday parties who’s having some anxiety about turning 40. But this trope is quickly cauterized when his fiancée (Ahna O'Reilly) finds out something ugly about his past, bringing about a kind of self-reflecting series of misadventures. (And a lot of delightful complaining.) While Goldberg says that the film “isn’t groundbreaking thematically,” the process was a difficult one for him to swallow. The script took on many different forms, and Goldberg decided to go back to basics, putting up Post-it notes, reading screenwriting books he “had on principle refused to read” in the hopes of creating something different than his other films. “This script took so long to write, not because it’s, like, the most intricately constructed movie of all time, but just because it’s a combination of my own self-criticism and the fact that I wanted to be as hard on myself as I am on other movies.” Despite Goldberg’s grueling process and affinity for self-criticism, No Way Jose provides the actor with a sense of peace and serves as a kind of inspiration for the future. “My takeaway is this film exists and it’s easy to find. I Love Your Work, it’s hard to find. So you have to just keep doing it. And I will leave behind me a mass of work for people to enjoy and to criticize at their leisure.” No Way Jose is available on DVD, iTunes, and VOD. Jessie Heyman is Vogue ’s Executive Director of Content Planning and Development, overseeing special projects and global sharing and syndication. She also, occasionally, writes—usually about Titanic and/or Leonardo DiCaprio. ... Read More Read More TV & Movies On the Podcast: Hannah Einbinder Hides Her Emmy and Actually Loves Magicians By Alex Jhamb Burns TV & Movies Why Can’t I Get Enough of Rich, Reality-TV Kids Set Loose in New York? By Emma Specter TV & Movies Forget Off Campus , Sterling Point Is This Year’s Best Teen Drama By Daisy Jones Culture I Want What They Have: Olivia Rodrigo and Her Man in Finance By Emma Specter TV & Movies On the Podcast: Dominic Sessa on Creativity, Cooking, and Becoming a Young Bourdain in Tony By Alex Jhamb Burns TV & Movies 10 Things We Can’t Wait to See at the 2026 Venice Film Festival By Radhika Seth TV & Movies I Want What They Have: Cooper Hoffman and Nico Parker By Emma Specter Opinion The Ups and Downs of Dating a Man in Finance By Emma Specter TV & Movies 46 Thoughts I Had About Episode 3 of The Shards By Emma Specter TV & Movies Here’s Everything Coming to Netflix in August 2026 By Emma Specter Runway On the Podcast: Inside Chloe Malle’s First September Issue By Alex Jhamb Burns Magazine From the Archives: A Bret Easton Ellis Essay from the April 1995 Issue of Vogue By Bret Easton Ellis The latest fashion news, beauty coverage, celebrity style, fashion week updates, culture reviews, and videos on Vogue.com. More from Vogue Newsletter Manage Account Verify Subscription Contact us FAQ About Vogue How We Test Careers Projects Vogue Archive Forces of Fashion Vogue College of Fashion Subscribe See More Stories Fashion Beauty Culture Living Runway Shopping Magazine Gift Guides Best of Sale User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights Accessibility Help Masthead Visual Stories Site Map © 2026 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Vogue may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Fashion & Beauty Select international site United States Adria Arabia Australia Brasil Britain China Czechoslovakia España France Germany Greece Hong Kong India Italia Japan Korea México Nederland Philippines Polska Portugal Scandinavia Singapore Taiwan Thailand Türkiye Ukraine