Eni Shareholders approve 2013 Financial Statements and appoints the Company Officers at Annual Meeting Skip to main content Publications Global Presence EN Select language EN - English IT - Italiano Search Search Or discover EnergIA , our new artificial intelligence tool. Reserved area Intranet access Yellow Search Search Or discover EnergIA , our new artificial intelligence tool. Investors Investors Go to Strategy Strategy Go to Strategic Plan 2026-2030 Eni's transformation since 2014 Rating ESG Stock and Shareholder remuneration policy Stock and Shareholder remuneration policy Go to Shareholders’ remuneration Eni share Evolution of Share Capital Analyst coverage Reporting and Financial statements Reporting and Financial statements Go to Financial Results and Reports Acquisitions and Disposals Financial Calendar Risk Management Risk Management Go to Integrated Risk Management Main Risks and Financial Risks Sensitivity Factors Debt and Rating Debt and Rating Go to Credit Rating and Debt Debt Capital Market (DCM) documentation Sustainable Finance Investor tools Investor tools Go to Stock tools Financial tools Individual Investors Media Media Go to Press Releases News Media kit Events Stories Editorial Publications Editorial Publications Go to Books Magazines Magazines Go to WE Publishing Multimedia Careers Careers Go to Selection process Working at Eni Working at Eni Go to Onboarding and career paths International Careers Meet the Eni Ambassadors Companies and professional areas Companies and professional areas Go to Working at Versalis Working at Enilive Working at Plenitude Working at EniProgetti Working at Eni Technology, Research & Development and Digital Working at Eni Trade & Biofuels (ETB) Working at Eni México Welfare Training Educational and careers guidance Company Company Go to Our history Brand identity Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Go to Policy Testimonials Initiatives and collaborations Business model Organisational chart Management Eni's main subsidiaries Governance Governance Go to Eni’s Model Board of Directors Board of Directors Go to Committees board of directors Board of Statutory Auditors Governance Rules Governance Rules Go to By-laws Corporate Governance Code Code of Ethics Model 231 Corporate Governance Report Shareholders’ Meeting Shareholders’ Meeting Go to Archive of Shareholders' Meetings Shareholders Controls and Risks Controls and Risks Go to Internal Control and Risk Management System Eni Regulatory System Anti-Corruption Antitrust Consumer Protection & Green Claims Financial Reporting Officer 231 Supervisory Body Internal Audit Audit firm Remuneration Management of whistleblowing reports Transactions with related parties Market Abuse Market Abuse Go to Managers’ transactions Archive (2006 to 2014) Eni SpA Relevant Managers Sustainability Sustainability Go to Commitment to sustainability Commitment to sustainability Go to Sustainability management Climate and decarbonisation Climate and decarbonisation Go to Oil & Gas Decarbonisation Partnerships and advocacy initiatives Carbon Offset Solutions Environmental Protection Environmental Protection Go to Biodiversity Water Resources Land and air Circular economy People and community People and community Go to Respect for human rights Eni people Health Safety Alliances for development Suppliers and customers Transparency and integrity Reporting and performances Reporting and performances Go to Sustainability reporting Publications Global Presence Login Reserved area Intranet access Yellow Yellow login Select language EN IT Company Company Go to Our history Brand identity Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Go to Policy Testimonials Initiatives and collaborations Business model Organisational chart Management Eni's main subsidiaries BRAND IDENTITY The Six-Legged Dog: Eni's brand identity and history Company We are an integrated energy company committed to the energy transition with solid actions for carbon neutrality by 2050 Governance Governance Go to Eni’s Model Board of Directors Board of Directors Go to Committees board of directors Board of Statutory Auditors Governance Rules Governance Rules Go to By-laws Corporate Governance Code Code of Ethics Model 231 Corporate Governance Report Shareholders’ Meeting Shareholders’ Meeting Go to Archive of Shareholders' Meetings Shareholders Controls and Risks Controls and Risks Go to Internal Control and Risk Management System Eni Regulatory System Anti-Corruption Antitrust Consumer Protection & Green Claims Financial Reporting Officer 231 Supervisory Body Internal Audit Audit firm Remuneration Management of whistleblowing reports Transactions with related parties Market Abuse Market Abuse Go to Managers’ transactions Archive (2006 to 2014) Eni SpA Relevant Managers Code of Ethics The Code defines the values and principles that guide the work of Eni, of its people and of those that contribute to the achievement of its goals 2026 Shareholders' Meeting Eni’s Ordinary and Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting was held on 6 May 2026 in Rome, Piazzale Mattei 1 Sustainability Sustainability Go to Commitment to sustainability Commitment to sustainability Go to Sustainability management Climate and decarbonisation Climate and decarbonisation Go to Oil & Gas Decarbonisation Partnerships and advocacy initiatives Carbon Offset Solutions Environmental Protection Environmental Protection Go to Biodiversity Water Resources Land and air Circular economy People and community People and community Go to Respect for human rights Eni people Health Safety Alliances for development Suppliers and customers Transparency and integrity Reporting and performances Reporting and performances Go to Sustainability reporting ENI FOR 2025 Read the special report: practical choices that combine business and sustainability to turn strategy into shared value Sustainability We create value for today and for the future by contributing to providing affordable energy in a sustainable way for people and the environment Vision Vision Go to Mission and values People and Partnerships Net Zero Satellite model Accessible energy Accessible energy Go to Gas in Eni's strategy Security of supply Technology neutrality principle Fair and sustainable energy for a growing world Innovation Innovation Go to Research and technological innovation Digitalisation Eni Awards Global energy scenarios Global energy scenarios Go to World Energy Review Gas and the global energy scenario SATELLITE MODEL The creation of specialized companies accelerates both new and traditional businesses Vision We offer increasingly decarbonized energy products and services, thanks to our industry leading technologies and investment in research and innovation Actions Actions Go to Energy Diversification Energy Diversification Go to Oil & Gas Renewable sources Bioenergy Hydrogen Magnetic confinement fusion Technologies for the transition Technologies for the transition Go to Biofuels Biofuels Go to Advanced biofuel production process Carbon capture, utilization and storage Renewable energy Renewable energy Go to Solar thermal energy Energy storage Sustainable chemistry Supercomputing and Artificial Intelligence Supercomputing and Artificial Intelligence Go to Supercomputer Robotics Geosciences Geosciences Go to Experimental geosciences Digital geosciences Environmental remediation Environmental remediation Go to Remediation of hydrocarbons in groundwater Land remediation Bioremediation of chlorinated solvents in groundwater Partnership for innovation Partnership for innovation Go to Universities, research centers and companies Open Innovation Activities around the world Activities around the world Go to Africa Africa Algeria Algeria Go to Bir Rebaa North Angola Angola Go to West Hub and East Hub Cote d'Ivoire Cote d'Ivoire Go to Baleine Educational project Improved cookstoves Health Protection Egypt Egypt Go to Nooros Zohr Local development Ghana Ghana Go to OCTP Educational projects Livelihood Restoration Plan Okuafo Pa Agricultural training Kenya Libya Mozambique Mozambique Go to Coral North Coral South Rovuma LNG Economic diversification Education projects Energy efficiency Prores Nigeria Republic of Congo Republic of Congo Go to Congo LNG Marine XII Access to energy Hinda Integrated Project Supporting culture Tunisia Tunisia Go to Adam Tataouine Americas Americas Argentina Mexico Mexico Go to Area 1 Local development United States Asia and Oceania Asia and Oceania Australia Australia Go to Katherine Land protection Indonesia Indonesia Go to Jangkrik Merakes Local development Iraq Iraq Go to Access to water Educational project Health protection Kazakhstan Kazakhstan Go to Badamsha Karachaganak Kashagan United Arab Emirates United Arab Emirates Go to Ghasha Ruwais Qatar Europe Europe Austria Belgium Cyprus France Germany Greece Italy Italy Go to Gela Livorno Porto Torres Priolo Ravenna Sannazzaro Taranto Venezia Porto Marghera Netherlands Norway Spain Switzerland United Kingdom United Kingdom Go to HyNet North West Liverpool Bay Activities around the world We are a global company that operates in 62 countries, creating and developing innovative projects alongside local communities Actions We are working towards energy transition through groundbreaking solutions, proprietary technologies, new business models and global partnerships Products Products Go to Home Businesses Mobility Sustainable Business Products for business energy efficiency products Our vision and actions lead to increasingly sustainable products, services and energy solutions Investors Investors Go to Strategy Strategy Go to Strategic Plan 2026-2030 Eni's transformation since 2014 Rating ESG Stock and Shareholder remuneration policy Stock and Shareholder remuneration policy Go to Shareholders’ remuneration Eni share Evolution of Share Capital Analyst coverage Reporting and Financial statements Reporting and Financial statements Go to Financial Results and Reports Acquisitions and Disposals Financial Calendar Risk Management Risk Management Go to Integrated Risk Management Main Risks and Financial Risks Sensitivity Factors Debt and Rating Debt and Rating Go to Credit Rating and Debt Debt Capital Market (DCM) documentation Sustainable Finance Investor tools Investor tools Go to Stock tools Financial tools Individual Investors EVENT 2026 Second Quarter Results Investors Announcements, financial events, reports, results and useful information for our investors Media Media Go to Press Releases News Media kit Events Stories Editorial Publications Editorial Publications Go to Books Magazines Magazines Go to WE Publishing Multimedia ENI FOR 2025 Read the special report: practical choices that combine business and sustainability to turn strategy into shared value Media News, press releases, stories, events, publications and multimedia to tell our story and describe the changing world of energy Careers Careers Go to Selection process Working at Eni Working at Eni Go to Onboarding and career paths International Careers Meet the Eni Ambassadors Companies and professional areas Companies and professional areas Go to Working at Versalis Working at Enilive Working at Plenitude Working at EniProgetti Working at Eni Technology, Research & Development and Digital Working at Eni Trade & Biofuels (ETB) Working at Eni México Welfare Training Educational and careers guidance Eni Masters Discover our training programmes in partnership with Italian universities, placing people at the centre of future skills careers EniJobs is the new platform where you can apply for all Eni job offers and Master programs. Join a global energy tech company Yellow login Login Access with password Rapid Access Back Media Press Releases FINANCE, STRATEGY AND REPORTING PRICE SENSITIVE Eni Shareholders approve 2013 Financial Statements and appoints the Company Officers at Annual Meeting 08 May 2014 - 9:05 PM CEST Download PDF (56.99 KB) Share Rome, 8 May 2014 – The Ordinary and Extraordinary Meeting of Eni’s Shareholders which was held today, resolved the following: to approve the financial statements at December 31, 2013 of Eni S.p.A. which report a net profit amounting to 4,409,777,928.34 euro; to allocate the net profit for the period of 4,409,777,928.34 euro, of which 2,417,239,554.69 euro remains following the distribution of the 2013 interim dividend of 0.55 euro per share, resolved by the Board of Directors on September 19, 2013, as follows: an amount of 176,184,575.82 euro to the reserve required by Article 6, paragraph 1, letter a) of Legislative Decree No. 38 of February 28, 2005; to Shareholders in the form of a dividend of 0.55 euro per share owned and outstanding at the ex-dividend date, excluding treasury shares on that date, thus completing payment of the dividend for the financial year 2013. The total dividend per share for financial year 2013 therefore amounts to 1.10 euro per share; the payment of the balance of the 2013 dividend in the amount of 0.55 euro, payable on May 22, 2014, with an ex-dividend date of May 19, 2014 and a record date of May 21, 2014; to cancel, for the portion not yet implemented as of the date of the Shareholders’ Meeting, the authorisation to the Board of Directors to acquire treasury shares as resolved by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2013; to authorise the Board of Directors, pursuant to Article 2357 of the Italian Civil Code, to purchase on the Mercato Telematico Azionario - in one or more transactions and in any case within 18 months from the date of this resolution - up to a maximum of 363,000,000 ordinary Eni shares, for a total amount of no more than 6,000,000,000.00 euro, including, respectively, the number and the value of treasury shares purchased subsequent to the Shareholders Meeting of July 16, 2012 authorising the share buy-back, at a unit price of no less than 1.102 euro and not more than the official price reported by Borsa Italiana for the shares on the trading day prior to each individual transaction, plus 5%, in accordance with the procedures established in the Rules of the Markets organised and managed by Borsa Italiana S.pA. In order to respect the limit envisioned in the third paragraph of Article 2357 of the Italian Civil Code, the number of shares to be acquired and the relative amount shall take into account the number and amount of Eni shares already held in the portfolio; to approve the amendments to Article 16.2 of the By-laws relating to the single call of the Shareholders’ Meeting; to set the number of the Directors at nine, set the term of the office of the Directors and of the Chairman of the Board so appointed to three financial years, with this term expiring on the date of the Shareholders’ Meeting convened to approve Eni S.p.A. 2016 Financial Statements and appoint the Board of Directors and the Chairman of the Board. The Directors are: Emma Marcegaglia, Chairwoman(1)*; Claudio Descalzi, Director(1); Andrea Gemma, Director(1)*; Pietro A. Guindani, Director(2)*. Karina A. Litvack, Director(2)*; Alessandro Lorenzi, Director(2)*; Diva Moriani, Director(1)*; Fabrizio Pagani, Director(1)*; Luigi Zingales, Director(1)*. to set the annual remuneration of the Chairwoman of the Board and of the others Directors at 90,000 euro and 80,000 euro pre-tax, respectively; to reduce the remuneration of the Directors with delegated powers pursuant to Article 23- bis , paragraph 5- quinquies , of Decree Law No. 201 of December 6, 2011, ratified with Law No. 214 of December 22, 2011, as most recently amended by Article 84- ter of Decree Law No. 60 of June 21, 2013, ratified with amendments with Law No. 98 of August 9, 2013; the remuneration which may be determined by the Board of Directors for the Directors with delegated powers must comply with the criteria pursuant to paragraph 5- quater and 5- sexies of the aforementioned article; also the maximum amount possible payable to the Chief Executive Officer shall also include the remuneration for any eventual business relationship or any other relation with the company or its subsidiaries and affiliates. The remuneration of the Chairwoman, which may be determined by the Board of Directors, cannot exceed 238,000 euro, including the remuneration for the position of Director set by the Shareholders’ meeting; to appoint the Statutory Auditors and the Chairman of the Board of Statutory Auditors. The term of office of the Board of Statutory Auditors and of the Chairman of the Board of Statutory Auditors is three financial years, expiring on the date of the Shareholders’ Meeting convened to approve Eni S.p.A. 2016 Financial Statements. The Statutory Auditors are: Matteo Caratozzolo, Chairman(2); Paola Camagli, Effective Auditor (1); Alberto Falini, Effective Auditor (1); Marco Lacchini, Effective Auditor (2); Marco Seracini, Effective Auditor (1); Stefania Bettoni, Alternate Auditor (1); Mauro Lonardo, Alternate Auditor (2). to set the Chairman of the Board of Statutory Auditors’ annual remuneration and of the effective Statutory Auditors at 80,000 euro and 70,000 euro pre-tax, respectively; to confirm the delegation of authority to the Board to determine the allowance for the Magistrate of the Court of Auditors responsible for monitoring the financial management of Eni; to approve the Long-Term Monetary Incentive Plan (2014-2016) according to the conditions provided by the informative document available on the Eni website. In addition Eni’s Shareholders Meeting resolves in favour of the first section of the Remuneration report pursuant to Article 123- ter of the Legislative Decree 58/98. With reference to the point 4 of the agenda, regarding the amendments to Article 17.3 of the By-laws of Eni S.p.A. and the addition of the new article 17- bis relating to the integrity requirements and the related grounds for ineligibility and forfeiture for Directors, the Shareholders’ Meeting did not approve the proposal presented. The curricula of the Directors and Statutory Auditors appointed are available on www.eni.com. At the present date Claudio Descalzi holds 39.455 Eni shares and Luigi Zingales 1.000 ADR Eni (representing no. 2.000 Eni shares). Notes (1) Drawn from the slate of candidates presented by the shareholder Ministry of Economy and Finance, owning, directly, the 4.335% of the Eni S.p.A. share capital, voted by the majority of the shareholders who have participated in the Shareholders’ Meeting. (2) Drawn from the slate of candidates presented by a group of Italian and Foreign Institutional Investors, owning, jointly, approximately the 0.703% of the Eni S.p.A. share capital, voted by the minority of the shareholders who have participated in the Shareholders’ Meeting. * Candidate who declared to possess the qualification of independence pursuant to Articles 148, paragraph 3 of the Legislative Decree 58/98 and Article 3 of the Corporate Governance Code. Continue reading Reduce Company Contacts Media Relations +39 02 52031875 - +39 06 59822030 Investor Relations Freephone for shareholders (from Italy): 800940924 Freephone for shareholders (from abroad): + 80011223456 +39 0252051651 Eni.com is a digitally designed platform that offers an immediate overview of Eni's activities. It addresses everyone, recounting in a transparent and accessible way the values, commitment and perspectives of a global technology company for the energy transition. Discover our mission POLICIES Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Info Reserved Area Registered Head Office Piazzale Enrico Mattei,1 00144 Rome, Italy Company Share Capital € 4,005,358,876.00 paid up Tax Identification Number VAT Number 00905811006 Branches Via Emilia, 1 and Piazza Ezio Vanoni, 1 20097 San Donato Milanese, Milan, Italy Rome Company Register 00484960588 OTHER LINKS Contacts FAQ Accessibility Calendar Newsletter Artificial Intelligence Scams and Phishing Whistleblowing eniSpace Remit Download document Clear chat If you want to change topic, clear the chat and make a new query to receive more relevant results. This will delete the question history. Ok Clear chat If you want to change topic, clear the chat and make a new query to receive more relevant results. This will delete the question history. Cancel Accept My searches Here you can find the full list of your queries. Ok The answers are generated by artificial intelligence, therefore they may contain inaccuracies. Please read the terms and conditions of use . Hide A window into Eni’s world EnergIA is an innovative tool based on artificial intelligence capabilities, which can help you navigate the contents of eni.com, quickly finding answers to your questions. EnergIA can also perform a search on a specific topic, providing the most up-to-date data available, or it can invite you to delve deeper into a topic of your interest by suggesting links and specific readings. Start now! EnergIA is an innovative tool based on artificial intelligence capabilities, which can help you navigate the contents of eni.com, quickly finding answers to your questions. Start now! Type your question here, and I’ll do my best to answer you! Ask a question Ask a question Disclaimer Find out how it works Disclaimer The content made available by Eni through the use of EnergIA (“ AI Contents ”) is generated by artificial intelligence. By using this service, the user acknowledges that they have read and accepted the terms and conditions for AI Contents available at the following link: terms and conditions of use. How does EnergIA work? EnergIA (ener'dʒia) is a system based on Generative Artificial Intelligence. Thanks to this technology, we can respond to your requests by querying the most relevant content and documents available on eni.com. (Note: financial documents from the last 12 months and press releases from the last 2 years are considered.) Through EnergIA, you can delve into topics of interest and have a real-time window into the world of Eni. If you wish to search for a specific document, press release or news, use the traditional search engine via the magnifying glass icon. Like all systems that leverage Generative Artificial Intelligence, EnergIA may generate inaccurate or outdated responses. Always consult the sources that EnergIA proposes as the origin of the generated information. If the system fails to find an exact match for the requested content, it still tends to provide a response. If you find any inaccuracies in the provided response, please send us your feedback at the bottom of the page: it will be very helpful for us to improve. Remember that the content generated by the system does not represent Eni’s official position. We therefore invite stakeholders to refer to their designated contacts for official statements: Press Office for journalists, Investor Relations for analysts and investors, Company Secretariat for shareholders etc.. EnergIA can understand questions posed in almost all languages, but we prefer to provide you with a response in English or Italian, the two languages available on eni.com. If you ask a question in Italian, the content on the site in Italian will be consulted. If you ask it in English or any other language, the content in English will be consulted. (Note: the language Eni uses for financial documents/content is predominantly English.) If questions are formulated that violate the set security criteria, the system will not proceed with processing the response. Please remember not to send personal data. By using this service, the users acknowledge that they have read and accepted the terms and conditions of use . Disclaimer Find out how it works Search Back My searches Ask a question The answers are generated by artificial intelligence, therefore they may contain inaccuracies. Please read the terms and conditions of use . Ask a question Ask a question How does EnergIA work? EnergIA (ener'dʒia) is a system based on Generative Artificial Intelligence. Thanks to this technology, we can respond to your requests by querying the most relevant content and documents available on eni.com. (Note: financial documents from the last 12 months and press releases from the last 2 years are considered.) Through EnergIA, you can delve into topics of interest and have a real-time window into the world of Eni. If you wish to search for a specific document, press release or news, use the traditional search engine via the magnifying glass icon. Like all systems that leverage Generative Artificial Intelligence, EnergIA may generate inaccurate or outdated responses. Always consult the sources that EnergIA proposes as the origin of the generated information. If the system fails to find an exact match for the requested content, it still tends to provide a response. If you find any inaccuracies in the provided response, please send us your feedback at the bottom of the page: it will be very helpful for us to improve. Remember that the content generated by the system does not represent Eni’s official position. We therefore invite stakeholders to refer to their designated contacts for official statements: Press Office for journalists, Investor Relations for analysts and investors, Company Secretariat for shareholders etc.. EnergIA can understand questions posed in almost all languages, but we prefer to provide you with a response in English or Italian, the two languages available on eni.com. If you ask a question in Italian, the content on the site in Italian will be consulted. If you ask it in English or any other language, the content in English will be consulted. (Note: the language Eni uses for financial documents/content is predominantly English.) If questions are formulated that violate the set security criteria, the system will not proceed with processing the response. Please remember not to send personal data. By using this service, the users acknowledge that they have read and accepted the terms and conditions of use . Disclaimer The content made available by Eni through the use of EnergIA (“ AI Contents ”) is generated by artificial intelligence. By using this service, the user acknowledges that they have read and accepted the terms and conditions for AI Contents available at the following link: terms and conditions of use. Type your question here, and I’ll do my best to answer you! Ask a question Use Eni’s artificial intelligence A window into Eni’s world, at your disposal. EnergIA is an innovative tool based on artificial intelligence capabilities, which can help you navigate the contents of eni.com, quickly finding answers to your questions. START Modal Disclaimer Titolo messaggio Lorem ipsum Checkbox default Azione principale Azione principale Azione principale