Heidi Fleiss - Clients, Movie & Charlie Sheen Search Newsletter History - Culture Musicians Athletes Movies - TV Artists Power - Politics Business Scientists Scholars - Educators Activists True Crime BIO Buys Privacy Notice Terms Of Use Skip to Content Newsletter Search History & Culture Musicians True Crime Athletes Power & Politics Scholars & Educators Movies & TV About My Bookmarks Newsletter Privacy Notice Terms Of Use History & Culture Musicians True Crime Athletes Power & Politics Scholars & Educators Movies & TV About More True Crime Heidi Fleiss Heidi Fleiss Heidi Fleiss is an American criminal best known as the "Hollywood Madam" of a high-class prostitution ring that catered to wealthy clients like Charlie Sheen. Updated: Apr 14, 2021 3:25 PM EDT Share Article Photo: Ron Davis/Getty Images (1965-) Who Is Heidi Fleiss? Heidi Fleiss is an American businesswoman and criminal. After dropping out of high school, Fleiss launched a high-class prostitution ring that catered to stars like Charlie Sheen. Dubbed the "Hollywood Madam," she was charged for pandering in 1993. Her "Black Book" of clients (which she never revealed) became as famous as her trial. The jury sentenced Fleiss to three years in prison. Early Life Fleiss was born in Los Angeles, California on December 30, 1965. One of six children born to a prominent pediatrician, Fleiss dropped out of high school at the age of 16. After receiving her high school equivalency, she briefly attended Valley College and later Santa Monica College. Fleiss worked as a waitress, before beginning a relationship with financier Bernie Cornfeld. In 1988, she was introduced to Elizabeth Adams, a longtime Beverly Hills madam who dealt exclusively with a wealthy clientele. The Hollywood Madam In 1990, Fleiss launched her own high-class prostitution ring and soon became known as the "Hollywood Madam." In 1993, she was charged by the state of California with five counts of pandering. The case went to trial and a jury convicted Fleiss on three of the five counts. She received the mandatory minimum sentence of three years in prison, but in a 1996 appeal, the conviction was overturned after jurors admitted to vote-trading and other infractions. The following year, Fleiss was tried in a federal court, where she was convicted of tax evasion and money laundering. She received a 37-month sentence, which she served at the Federal Correctional Institution in Dublin, California. All three trials drew extensive media coverage, as it was speculated that Fleiss might reveal the names contained in her now infamous "black book" of customers (which was said to include large numbers of prominent citizens). Notably, actor Charlie Sheen testified at her trial that he alone paid Fleiss $53,000 for the sexual services of prostitutes. QUICK FACTS Name: Heidi Fleiss Birth Year: 1965 Birth date: December 30, 1965 Birth State: California Birth City: Los Feliz, Los Angeles Birth Country: United States Gender: Female Best Known For: Heidi Fleiss is an American criminal best known as the "Hollywood Madam" of a high-class prostitution ring that catered to wealthy clients like Charlie Sheen. Industries Television Astrological Sign: Capricorn Schools Valley College Santa Monica College Fact Check We strive for accuracy and fairness.If you see something that doesn't look right, contact us ! CITATION INFORMATION Article Title: Heidi Fleiss Biography Author: Biography.com Editors Website Name: The Biography.com website Url: https://www.biography.com/crime/heidi-fleiss Access Date: Publisher: A&E; Television Networks Last Updated: April 14, 2021 Original Published Date: April 2, 2014 Watch Next Advertisement - Continue Reading Below True Crime All About Lindsay Clancy and Her Murder Trial What to Know About Luigi Mangione’s Case and Trial Henry Hill and the Real-Life GoodFellas: The True Story Behind the Movie The True Story Behind A Child of My Own Advertisement - Continue Reading Below What to Know About OnlyFans Model Courtney Clenney Where Is Joachim Posener Now? The True Stories Behind 'The Godfather' 5 Famous Deaths at the Hands of Loved Ones The Life and Death of John Gotti Who Is Sarah Grace Patrick? Where Is Mackenzie Shirilla Now? D4vd’s Murder Case, Explained Advertisement - Continue Reading Below About Biography.com Newsletter Contact Us Other Hearst Subscriptions A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2026 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. Site contains certain content that is owned A&E Television Networks, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Biography and associated logos are trademarks of A+E Networks®protected in the US and other countries around the globe. Privacy Notice Terms of Use CA Notice at Collection DAA Industry Opt Out Your CA Privacy Rights/Shine the Light Cookies Choices