For the Leclercs, only the name is inherited Date: Loading date... Time: Loading time... Menu Menu Go Back to the HomePage Le Monde Go Back to the HomePage Le Monde FR EN Your account Your account Subscribe Your account Your account Subscribe Sign in Sign in Sign in Go Back to the HomePage Le Monde Go Back to the HomePage Le Monde Menu Menu Search Search Previous article Summer Reads Bernard Arnault's Empire 21st-Century Cheaters America 250 A Russian in Paris Next article Update payment details Update Payment details Your account Subscription paused Subscription suspended Partager votre abonnement Other offers Your selection Your newsletters Your notifications Our apps The print The print Subscriber Other offers Subscribers events Subscriber Other offers Le Monde Games Subscriber Other offers Le Monde in French Le Monde in French Subscriber Other offers Subscribe Help Log out Close the main menu Go Back to the HomePage Le Monde Go Back to the HomePage Le Monde FR EN Search an article Summer Reads Climate change Middle East War in Ukraine United States Donald Trump Iran Fires FIFA 2027 French presidential election Jeffrey Epstein See more of current news World All articles Europe Americas United States Africa Middle East Asia and Pacific Geopolitics Diplomacy Letters from Middle East War in Ukraine United States Donald Trump Iran Jeffrey Epstein Europe All articles European Union France United Kingdom Russia Germany Italy France All articles French Politics Emmanuel Macron French Education French Justice Paris 2027 French presidential election Environment All articles Climate Energy Biodiversity Natural disasters Oceans Water Pollution Pesticides PFAS Climate change Fires Economy All articles World economy French economy Business Agriculture Tourism Transport Management Employment M Magazine All articles Lifestyle Food Fashion Travel Culture All articles Art Exhibitions Cinema TV shows Music Performing Arts Books Photography Architecture French Delights Global issues All articles Abortion Antisemitism Child abuse Counterterrorism Disabilities Drug use and trafficking Human Rights Immigration LGBTQ+ rights Organized Crime Pornography Religion Sexual violence Women's Rights Pixels All articles Artificial Intelligence Crypto Disinformation Social Media Sports All articles Football Tennis Cycling Rugby Basketball FIFA Science Health Intimacy Les Décodeurs Our Times Obituaries Religion Opinion All articles Editorials Columns Op-Eds Analysis Le Monde’s app Other formats Video investigations Newsletters Cookie preferences Close the services menu The holder of your subscription has paused their plan for one month, until #suspension_date#. You no longer have access to their benefits. Your subscription has been paused for one month, until #suspension_date#. If you’d like to resume it earlier, please contact our customer service team . PIERRE VERDY / AFP Summer Reads Summer Reads Summer Reads Successions Successions Successions For the Leclercs, only the name is inherited By Raphaëlle Bacqué and Vanessa Schneider Published on August 19, 2024, at 6:01 pm (Paris) 15 min read Lire en français Subscribers only Make us preferred on Google share Share on Messenger Share on Facebook Share by email Share on Linkedin Copy link Investigation 'Successions,' season 3 (2/6). Edouard Leclerc, founder of the Leclerc cooperative that became a global retailer, had planned to choose his successor among its members, but his son Michel-Edouard stepped into the shoes. At 72, 'France's favorite CEO' is in no hurry to hand over the reins to his own successor. Find all episodes of the "Successions" series here. Michel-Edouard Leclerc has no memory of dates. There's an explanation for this curious amnesia: He hates looking back on the past, doesn't dwell on the present and thinks only of things to come. So, he haf trouble precisely pinpointing that particular day when his family froze, out of fear. He hesitated between 2002 or 2003, unless it was much further back. "MEL," as he is known in the French world of retailing of which he is a figurehead, lived in Paris at the time, working tirelessly for the brand created by his father, Edouard Leclerc (754 stores in France, 165,000 employees). On weekends, he tried as often as possible to go to Landerneau in Brittany, to visit his parents, Hélène and Edouard. Edouard was an odd character: a genius entrepreneur, fighter and preacher, with an unusual temperament. His son retained an image of him as a shifting character, "sometimes solitary, sometimes hyperactive, moving from a dreamy, inspired air to excessive generosity in conversations and social situations." Edouard Leclerc also represented an image, reminiscent of the actor Lino Ventura, grumpy and boastful, affable and attentive, never showing a sign of fatigue. However, since he suffered "a major burn-out" in the early 2000s, in the words of his son, he had shown signs of weakness, bouts of melancholy and difficulty concentrating. Edouard Leclerc at his home in Landerneau, France, with his wife Hélène and their three children, Michel (now Michel-Edouard), standing; Hélène, on the sofa; and Isabelle, on November 7, 1959. AFP You have 93.43% of this article left to read. The rest is for subscribers only. Subscribe now to read the full story. Your credit card has expired. Update your payment information to keep your subscription running. Update Payment details Subscribe now to read the full story. Your payment failed. Update your payment information to keep your subscription running Update Payment details Subscribe now to read the full story. Already a subscriber ? Sign in Subscribe to continue reading. Get unlimited access to Le Monde in English €2.49/month, cancel anytime Subscribe to continue reading. Get unlimited access to Le Monde in English €2.49/month, cancel anytime Subscribe now Card Apple Pay Google Pay PayPal Sections World French politics France Les Décodeurs Sports Environment Science Campus Le Monde Africa Pixels Health Obituaries Archives About Us Le Monde Syndication Le Monde for hotels French Focus Rugby World Cup 2023 Tour de France 2023 Paris Olympics 2024 Emmanuel Macron Opinion Editorials Columns Analysis Subscription Sign up Sign In Le Monde in English Sign up to receive our daily selection of "Le Monde" articles translated into English. Sign up Informations légales le Monde Mentions légales Conditions générales Charte du Groupe Politique de confidentialité Aide (FAQ) Le Monde Legal informations Legal Information Group Policy Privacy Policy Cookie Preferences Terms & Conditions FAQ Follow Le Monde Facebook Youtube Instagram TikTok Reddit RSS feed