Olympedia – Anderl Ostler Toggle navigation Olympedia Athletes Advanced search Horse search Related Olympians Counts Doubles Lists Country representation Athletes Countries Head-to-head Best results Results comparison Countries Games Games Medals Results Opening ceremony Venues Sports Disciplines & Sports Events IOC Organizations Definitions Awards Meetings Host city selection Statistics Medals by country Medals by athlete Medal tables Participations Olympic Records Age records Age at death Lists Today Statistics Feedback Home Athletes Anderl Ostler Anderl Ostler Biographical information Roles Competed in Olympic Games • Opening Flagbearer Sex Male Full name Andreas Benedikt "Anderl"•Ostler Used name Anderl•Ostler Born 21 January 1921 in Grainau, Bayern (GER) Died 24 November 1988 (aged 67 years 10 months 3 days) in Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Bayern (GER) Affiliations SC Riessersee, Garmisch-Partenkirchen (GER) NOC Germany Nationality West Germany Medals OG Gold 2 Silver 0 Bronze 0 Total 2 Biography West German bob pilot Andreas Osterl won two gold medals at the 1951 World Championships at Alpe d’Huez together with brakeman Lorenz Nieberl in the two-man event and completed by Michael Pössinger and non-Olympian Xaver Leitl in the four-man event. In 1953 he won the silver medal in both the two-man and the four-man event at his hometown track of Garmisch-Partenkirchen. Ostler also won two gold medals at the 1952 Winter Games at Oslo with Nieberl in the two-man event and completed by Fritz Kuhn and Franz Kemser in the four-man event. In order to have a shot at the title, the second German four-man sled wasn’t entered, and instead the two heaviest pushers – Kuhn and Kemser – joined Ostler and Nieberl in the remaining sled. This gave the Germans a decisive advantage, as they weighed in at 472 kg (including sled), and they comfortably slid to the gold. The international bobsleigh federation (FIBT) soon afterwards decided to limit the weight for four-man teams to 420 kg. Four years later Ostler was the flagbearer at the opening ceremony at Cortina d’Ampezzo and placed eighth in the two-man event with Hans Hohenester . Ostler made his living as a restaurant proprietor. In 2006 the story about the 1952 German four-man bob was told in a cinema comedy called Schwere Jungs (Heavy Boys). Results Games Discipline (Sport) / Event NOC / Team Pos Medal Nationality As 1952 Winter Olympics Bobsleigh ( Bobsleigh ) GER FRG Anderl Ostler Two, Men (Olympic) Lorenz Nieberl 1 Gold Four, Men (Olympic) Unified Team of Germany 1 Gold 1956 Winter Olympics Bobsleigh ( Bobsleigh ) GER FRG Anderl Ostler Two, Men (Olympic) Hans Hohenester 8 Other participations Games Role NOC Nationality As 1956 Winter Olympics Flagbearer at the Opening Ceremony GER FRG Anderl Ostler List mentions Listed in Olympians Who Won a Medal at the World Bob & Skeleton Championships (FIBT/IBSF) (2–2–0 1951 Alpe d'Huez gold: Two-man and Four-man (competed for West Germany); 1953 Garmisch-Partenkirchen silver: Two-man and Four-man (competed for West Germany)) Did you know? At the 1964 Olympics, the Olympic flame was lit by Yoshinori Sakai , an athlete who was born on 6 August 1945 in Hiroshima - the day the atomic bomb destroyed that city. Login | Statistics | About | Image Credits | FAQ | Feedback © OlyMADMen 2006 — 2026