Princess Caroline of Monaco married Italian businessman Stefano Casiraghi... - UPI Archives U.S. News World News Korea Regional Review Latin America Region Odd News Entertainment Movies Music TV Sports NFL MLB NBA Soccer Voices Photos News US News World News Entertainment Sports Archive Almanac Trending 'Point Break' Fake electors North Korea 'Ice Silk Road' Fernando Mendoza Nigel Farage Cuba, Dominican Republic Brazil tariffs Bad Bunny UPI Archives Dec. 29, 1983 Princess Caroline of Monaco married Italian businessman Stefano Casiraghi... By ALINE MOSBY MONTE CARLO -- Princess Caroline of Monaco married Italian businessman Stefano Casiraghi Thursday in a low-key ceremony. Then, in a scene that might have come from an operetta, the couple waved happily from a window to an applauding crowd outside the royal palace. The pink castle looked like a fairy tale with its crenelated towers, rows of ancient cannons and guards in black jackets and blue trousers. The palace drew a royal veil over Caroline's second wedding -- a civil ceremony that did not have the blessing of the Vatican because she has not received a Roman Catholic annulment of her 1978-80 marriage to French financier Philippe Junot. The gold-velveted draperies were drawn closed at the windows of the palace salon where the the wedding took place. But in a surprise move after the morning ceremony, the bride and bridegroom stood in an open window to acknowledge the applause of an estimated 500 Monegasques and foreign tourists, mostly Italians shouting, 'Carolina.' Caroline smiled exuberantly and waved to the throng gathered below in brilliant sunshine on a cobblestone square. Caroline then brought her father, Prince Rainier, to the window for more applause. A palace staff member said Caroline's window appearance was her father's idea. The princess, who will be 27 in January, wore a short beige satin dress from the Paris fashion salon of Christian Dior, matching shoes and a schoolgirl ribbon tied on the left side of her chestnut-colored hair. The groom, at 23 three years younger and a head taller than she, wore a grey suit and grey-striped tie. They were married in the white-and-gilt Salon des Glaces, near a life-size oil painting of the bride's American mother, the former Grace Kelly, killed in a 1982 automobile accident. During the ceremony read by Judge Noel Museux, the couple exchanged simple gold wedding bands. Then they kissed, and embraced their families. After a champagne reception, the wedding party sat down to a five-course palace banquet graced with a five-tiered chocolate wedding cake. The couple will honeymoon at a secret spot after spending the New Year holidays with her family. They will live in her pink villa near the palace and also in Milan, Italy, where the bridegroom runs an export business and restaurant. The modest ceremony contrasted with her 1978 church wedding and reception for 1,500 white-tie guests. Only 20 were invited this time, including Paul Belmondo, son of French filmstar Jean-Paul Belmondo, Caroline's brother Prince Albert, her sister Princess Stephanie, Casiraghi's parents, Mr. and Mrs. Giancarlo Casiraghi, his sister Rosalba, and brothers Marco and Daniele. The Philadelphia Kelly family was represented by Mrs. Lizane Levine and her daughter Grace. Latest Headlines Emerging Threats // 7 years ago Glitches delay start of Florida recount for senator, governor Nov. 11 (UPI) -- Florida's statewide recount began Sunday morning after a three-hour delay amid a series of technical glitches with Broward County's counting machines. Emerging Threats // 9 years ago CPI Aero signs contract with Sikorsky Black Hawk fuel assemblies July 17 (UPI) -- CPI Aerostructures has secured a five-year contract worth $21 million to manufacture and supply fuel panel assemblies for Sikorsky UH-60 Black Hawk helicopters. Emerging Threats // 1 decade ago Russian dance troupe under investigation after twerking performance goes viral ORENBURG, Russia, April 16 (UPI) -- A teenage dance group in Russia is under investigation by officials after a twerking performance video went viral this week. Emerging Threats // 1 decade ago Calvin Harris forbids Taylor Swift from writing about him LOS ANGELES, April 15 (UPI) -- Electronic dance music artist Calvin Harris is Taylor Swift's newest romantic interest, but Harris, 31, reportedly doesn't want a song written about him. Emerging Threats // 1 decade ago Emilia Clarke on why she turned down 'Fifty Shades' role NEW YORK, March 26 (UPI) -- Emilia Clarke does not regret turning down the lead role in the movie adaptation of the erotic novel Fifty Shades of Grey. Emerging Threats // 1 decade ago Lithuania brings back military conscription VILNIUS, Lithuania, March 20 (UPI) -- Military conscription returns to Lithuania amid Eastern Europe's military tension. Trending Stories Hungary sinks barges into Danube River to stave off energy crisis NATO jets shoot down drone in Romanian airspace Trump says he will make Strait of Hormuz a U.S. territory NYC man charged with hate crime in synagogue attack Israel strikes Lebanon, killing 15; 3 Israelis injured Follow Us Back to top About UPI Contact Corrections Advertisements Copyright © 2026 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Privacy Manager