The Givenchy Maison | Givenchy Pressroom | Pressroom Bag Search Menu Mode Women Collections Accessoires Men Collections Corporate Celebrities 13 May 2025 The Givenchy Maison Press Release The House of Givenchy is an iconic French fashion house, founded in 1952 by designer Hubert de Givenchy. From the outset, the house stood out for its understated elegance, clean lines, and refined sense of sophistication. Hubert de Givenchy succeeded in establishing a style that was both classic and innovative, breaking away from the excesses of post-war fashion. Givenchy’s success is inseparable from his collaboration with actress Audrey Hepburn, who was both his muse and friend. He notably designed the famous black dress worn by Hepburn in the film Breakfast at Tiffany’s, which became a symbol of timeless elegance. This relationship helped cement the house’s image as a synonym for grace and refinement. Over the decades, Givenchy has evolved with the times while remaining true to its heritage. Several renowned designers have taken over the artistic direction, such as Alexander McQueen, Riccardo Tisci, and Clare Waight Keller — the first woman to hold the position. Each brought a personal touch, blending modernity, romanticism, and urban influence. Among the house’s signature pieces are haute couture collections, ready-to-wear clothing, luxury accessories, and perfumes. The fragrance L’Interdit, originally created for Audrey Hepburn, became a classic in its category and remains one of the brand’s best-sellers to this day. See also 17 Jun 2026 GIVENCHY UNVEILS ITS EXCLUSIVE SUMMER DESTINATION IN SAINT-TROPEZ Learn more Learn more 29 Aug 2025 GIVENCHY NAMES THE ACTRESS ZHANG RUONAN AS ITS BRAND AMBASSADOR IN CHINA Learn more Learn more Be the first to know Givenchy’s latest news Subscribe to our newsletter and be the first to hear about new collections, events, and all the latest updates. Subscribe now Newsletter Subscription All fields marked with * are required Title * mr mrs First name * Last name * Untitled I'm journalist Media * Role * Country * Afghanistan Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cabo Verde Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo, Democratic Republic of the Cook Islands Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czechia Côte d'Ivoire Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Eswatini Ethiopia Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Holy See Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Macedonia Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine, State of Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Réunion Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Sweden Switzerland Syria Arab Republic Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania, the United Republic of Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Türkiye US Minor Outlying Islands Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Viet Nam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Åland Islands Country Email address * Untitled * I have read and accepted the regarding data processing. CAPTCHA Subscribe Δ Legal PRIVACY & COOKIE POLICY Contacts Givenchy.com Instagram Facebook Twitter/X Youtube Powered by epresspack © 2026. All Rights Reserved. Cookie manager Cookie manager We use cookies on this site to enhance your user experience. Some essential features on this website will not work without cookies. Please check your cookie settings below and tick the box of the cookies that you accept. Accept all cookies Do not accept Configure your cookies Strictly necessary Necessary for the website to properly function and cannot be switched off in our system. These cookies are crucial for the basic functions of the website and the website will not work in its intended way without them. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable data. Performance Allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Without these cookies, we will not be able to gather accurate data in order to identify improvements needed to be done on the website that will enhance your experience. Functional Enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalisation. These cookies support site functionality that is visible or advantageous to your personal experience of the website. Videos will not be available without accepting these cookies. ID user: va7dct0gnkrndrm7nm2gm4ki17 Token: fb9966aeb0fa04647731dbdf07a470ee43c3e724e7df0d49960d927846eeaba20a1b559840a7619f6bf61032abaa9c72885b9b5dbab97882382cf4e270282757eb689ba16fd4d9efd5aee38a6e9f Save preferences