Frederick Barclay threatens legal action as Ritz hotel is sold | Barclay brothers | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Print subscriptions Search jobs Sign in Int International edition UK edition US edition Australia edition Europe edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News World news US politics UK news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Environment Science Global development Football Tech Business Obituaries Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Cartoons Opinion videos Letters Sport View all Sport Football Cricket Rugby union Tennis Cycling F1 Golf US sports Culture View all Culture Books Music TV & radio Art & design Film Games Classical Stage Lifestyle View all Lifestyle Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Health & fitness Home & garden Women Men Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Search jobs Holidays Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Newsletters Today's paper Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Holidays Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland The Ritz in London. Frederick threatened to sue his sibling if a sale of the hotel went through for less than £1bn. Photograph: Ian West/PA View image in fullscreen The Ritz in London. Frederick threatened to sue his sibling if a sale of the hotel went through for less than £1bn. Photograph: Ian West/PA Barclay brothers This article is more than 6 years old Frederick Barclay threatens legal action as Ritz hotel is sold This article is more than 6 years old Sale of London hotel to Qatari investor deepens feud over Barclay brothers’ billions in assets Mark Sweney Sat 28 Mar 2020 12.38 GMT Last modified on Wed 25 Sep 2024 15.57 BST Share Prefer the Guardian on Google The luxurious Ritz hotel in London has been sold to a Qatari investor, prompting Frederick Barclay to threaten legal action as the feud over the family’s billions in assets deepens. The investor has agreed to buy the Ritz, the storied 115-year-old property that is the crown jewel in the twin Barclay brothers’ empire, which includes the Telegraph and online retailer the Very Group (previously known as Shop Direct and, before that, Littlewoods) and delivery firm Yodel. London-based legal firm Macfarlanes said that one of its private Qatari investors had bought the hotel, which David and Frederick Barclay purchased for £75m in 1995. The sale price is unknown, but it had been touted at about £750m . “It is a privilege to become the owner of the iconic Ritz Hotel and have the opportunity to build on its innate style and grand traditions,” said a spokesman for the new owner, which has not been named. “During this Covid-19 crisis, our first priority is towards the staff of the Ritz, who together are the essence of the Ritz’s 115-year-old reputation. Once this pandemic has passed, we look forward to re-opening the hotel and to sharing our longer-term plans.” Sir Fredrick Barclay, who along with his daughter Amanda is in a bitter battle with his brother’s side of the family over the family assets, said the spread of the virus had been used to push through the sale. Frederick, who has threatened to sue if a sale of the Ritz goes through for less than £1bn , has expressed outrage at not being consulted on the sale. “This deal, if it has occurred, appears to have been pushed through in the middle of the coronavirus crisis in the hope that it will be uncontested,” said a spokesman for Sir Frederick Barclay. Relations between the two sides of the Barclay brothers family have fallen apart since Fredrick’s nephew was caught handling a recording device in the conservatory of the Ritz, where Fredrick often conducts meetings , according to court papers. “We are surprised and perturbed by the announcement that the Ritz hotel has allegedly been sold,” said a spokesman for Frederick Barclay. “We have neither consulted nor have we approved this sale. As we outlined earlier this month, any potential purchaser will face significant litigation if this deal is not approved by all sides.” The family of Frederick’s brother, David, handles the day-to-day running and two of his sons, Aidan and Howard, control the Barclays empire as directors of Ellerman Investments Ltd, the holding company of the Barclays UK assets. “We are pleased to have agreed a sale of the Ritz that secures great value for all shareholders, following a rigorous process led by independent advisers,” said a spokesman for Ellerman Investments Ltd. “The buyer is committed to investing in the Ritz and its staff for the long-term, ensuring a bright future for this unique asset. We also note that neither Sir Frederick nor Amanda Barclay have any relevant legal interest which would allow them to disrupt the sale.” Explore more on these topics Barclay brothers news Share Reuse this content More on this story More on this story Barclay family avoids bankruptcy after deal with HSBC over £143m debt 29 Apr 2026 Revealed: Axel Springer skipped due diligence before £575m Telegraph takeover 24 Apr 2026 Telegraph takeover by German buyer cleared by culture secretary 14 Apr 2026 Telegraph sold for £575m as German buyer elbows out Daily Mail 6 Mar 2026 Telegraph takeover decision put back by fresh inquiry into Barclay family’s UAE-backed deal 26 Jan 2024 Telegraph takeover: UK government intends to order new investigation into deal 24 Jan 2024 Telegraph suitor considers legal action against UK government over rival bid 23 Feb 2026 MPs want UK national security law used to vet Barclay family’s Telegraph offer 19 Nov 2023 Barclay family put superyacht up for sale for £19m 4 Oct 2023 Most viewed Most viewed UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms & conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Search UK jobs Tips Accessibility settings Work with us Back to top © 2026 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)