Strange form of life – Fundação Amália Rodrigues Skip to main content Amália Strange way of life Amália in the Cinema Amália in the Theatre Amália and the Poets Discography A Singer of the World Humanitarian Publications House Museum Directions Visiting the House Heritage Collections Documents and iconography Areas and services Personalized Experiences Garden Store Education Brejão’s Estate A Timeless Brand Amália Brand Partnerships Exhibitions Shows The Foundation Mission Our Team Legal documents Media Amália Strange way of life Amália in the Cinema Amália in the Theatre Amália and the Poets Discography A Singer of the World Humanitarian Publications House Museum Directions Visiting the House Heritage Collections Documents and iconography Areas and services Personalized Experiences Garden Store Education Brejão’s Estate A Timeless Brand Amália Brand Partnerships Exhibitions Shows The Foundation Mission Our Team Legal documents Media Amália Strange way of life Amália in the Cinema Amália in the Theatre Amália and the Poets Discography A Singer of the World Humanitarian Publications House Museum Directions Visiting the House Heritage Collections Documents and iconography Areas and services Personalized Experiences Garden Store Education Brejão’s Estate A Timeless Brand Amália Brand Partnerships Exhibitions Shows The Foundation Mission Our Team Legal documents Media Português Français VISITS' SCHEDULE: Tuesday to Sunday from 10a.m. to 06p.m. Amália Strange way of life Amália in the Cinema Amália in the Theatre Amália and the Poets Discography A Singer of the World Humanitarian Publications House Museum Directions Visiting the House Heritage Collections Documents and iconography Areas and services Personalized Experiences Garden Store Education Brejão’s Estate A Timeless Brand Amália Brand Partnerships Exhibitions Shows The Foundation Mission Our Team Legal documents Media Strange form of life “When they tell my story and I am no longer alive to say how it really was, that’s when they’ll start making things up. Even when I have spoken for myself, many people will say it isn’t true, that the rumors are what’s real. A person belongs to themselves. If that were the truth, I wouldn’t mind people talking. What annoys me is the lie. But I know my story will be the one they choose — the most interesting one, the one that isn’t mine.” Amália Rodrigues 13 anos Pais de Amália Com a irmã 1920 – Daughter of Albertino de Jesus Rodrigues and Lucinda da Piedade Rebordão, Amália da Piedade Rodrigues is born on July 23rd at 86 Rua Martim Vaz, in Lisbon. 1922 – Her parents return to Fundão, leaving Amália in the care of her maternal grandparents. 1929 – She begins studying at the Official School of Tapada da Ajuda, where she completes her primary education. In childhood, despite her shyness, she enjoys singing for the neighbors and at school events. 1931–34 – Works as an embroiderer, ironer, and cake factory worker in Pampulha. 1934 – With her parents’ return to the capital, she goes to live with them, two brothers, and two sisters in a Lisbon neighborhood.. 1935 – Lives in the Alcântara neighborhood and becomes the soloist of its march, singing in squares and local festivals. Begins selling fruit at Cais da Rocha together with her sister Celeste Rodrigues and their mother. 1938 – Representing Alcântara, enters the Rainha do Fado dos Bairros (Queen of Fado of the Neighborhoods) contest, from which she eventually withdraws. At that time, she presents herself as Amália Rebordão. It is during this contest that she meets Francisco da Cruz, a lathe operator and amateur guitarist, whom she marries in 1940. The marriage lasts only two years. 1939 – Performs informally in recreational societies. In July, makes her professional debut as a fadista at Retiro da Severa, becoming the headliner by early October. 1940 – Performs in various fado venues, where she creates the image of the fadista dressed entirely in black. Influenced by José de Melo, she begins singing at Café Luso and Solar da Alegria, becoming the highest-paid fadista in the country, earning one conto de réis per performance. Makes her stage debut in the revue Ora vai tu . 19 anos 1941 – Becomes the main attraction in the revue Espera de Toiros . 1942 – Meets at the theatre one of her main composers, Frederico Valério, the first to write for her with full understanding of the richness of her voice. Performs in the revues Essa é que é essa and Boa Nova. 1943 – Performs abroad for the first time, in Madrid, at the invitation of the Portuguese ambassador, Dr. Pedro Teotónio Pereira. During this visit, she discovers her passion for flamenco and Spanish culture. Takes part in the revue Alerta está . 1944 – Appears in the revue Rosa Cantadeir a. Visits Brazil, where she performs at the Casino Copacabana, the Teatro João Caetano, and Rádio Globo. For four months, she performs at the Casino Copacabana with the show Numa Aldeia Portuguesa , created especially for her. 1945 – Back in Portugal, continues occasional performances at Café Luso. Records the first albums of her career while in Brazil. Spends a ten‑month season there, performing at Teatro República and Casino Copacabana with the Companhia Amália Rodrigues. 1946 – Becomes the main attraction in the revue Estás na Lua and the leading actress in the operetta Ai Mouraria. 1947 – Stars in the films Capas Negras and Fado, História de uma Cantadeira. In Madrid, films ten short fado features that are shown in cinemas as supporting programs. Is the main attraction in the revue Se aquilo que a gente sente. 1948 – Performs in France and Spain. In Portugal, continues to perform at Café Luso, on the radio, and in casinos. 1949 – Receives the award for “Best Film Actress” for her performance in Fado, História de uma Cantadeira . Stars in the film Vendaval Maravilhoso and is invited to sing in the movie Sol e toiros. Performs in London, Rio de Janeiro, and São Paulo, while maintaining regular performances at Café Luso, in Lisbon. 1950 – Takes part in a series of shows sponsored by the Marshall Plan in the cities of Berlin, Rome, Trieste, Dublin, Bern, and Paris. Performs in the variety program O comboio das Seis e Meia. Begins working with poets Pedro Homem de Mello, Luís Macedo, and David Mourão-Ferreira. Interprets the fado “Foi Deus,” a work by Alberto Janes written especially for her voice. In Lisbon, continues to perform at Café Luso and Casino Estoril. 1951 – Performs in Mozambique, the Belgian Congo, Angola, San Sebastián, and Biarritz. Records eight fados by Frederico Valério for the Melodia label, accompanied by the maestro’s orchestra. 1952 – Performs for four months at the nightclub La Vie en Rose in New York. Also performs in Bern, Geneva, and Lausanne. At the Abbey Road Studios in London, begins her collaboration with the label Valentim de Carvalho, where she records marches, fados, and Spanish and Brazilian songs. 1953 – Performs in Mexico City and Madrid. Returns to New York, where she appears on The Eddie Fisher Show, marking the first appearance of a Portuguese artist on international television. 1954 – Performs for two months at the nightclub Mocambo in Hollywood, accompanied by Paul Herbert’s orchestra. Spends an extended season in Mexico, where she sings traditional rancheras. “I went abroad with a guitar and a viola, and I built an international career. It wasn’t my Portuguese, nor my lack of spectacle. It was my authenticity that triumphed.” Amália Rodrigues 1955 – Purchases the house on Rua de São Bento, her residence until her death and now the headquarters of the Amália Rodrigues Foundation – Casa-Museu. Appears in the French film L es Amants du Tage , where she sings Barco Negro, and also features in the films April in Portugal (United Kingdom) and Músicas de Siempre (Mexico). At the invitation of Vasco Morgado, stars in the spoken theatre play A Severa. Also performs in Spain, Brazil, and Mexico. 1956 – Invited by Bruno Coquatrix and following the international success of Barco Negro, performs at the Olympia in Paris, the most prestigious concert hall of the time, giving two consecutive seasons. Performs in Belgium, Algeria, Mexico, Brazil, and at the Palais du Louvre for the show La Nuit des Ambassades. 1957 – Performs on the Côte d’Azur, in Belgium, Algeria, Rio de Janeiro, Mexico City, Stockholm, Lausanne, and Caracas. The album Amália à L’Olympia is released and distributed worldwide, becoming her most famous live recording. Performs in France, Sweden, Switzerland, and Venezuela. Appears in the film Las Canciones Unidas in Mexico . 1958 – Under the direction of Augusto Fraga, stars in Sangue Toureiro , the first Portuguese color film, co‑starring the bullfighter Diamantino. Together with Varela Silva, stars in the play O Céu da Minha Rua, directed by Fernando Frazão and broadcast by RTP. Performs in Rio de Janeiro, Brussels, Sweden, and Denmark. Receives the Military Order of Saint James of the Sword, rank of Knight, from Marcello Caetano at the Brussels World’s Fair. Begins recording for the Ducretet‑Thomson label. 1959 – Performs Estranha forma de vida, a poem of her own authorship, though she asks her then brother‑in‑law Varela Silva to register it at SPA (Portuguese Society of Authors). Performs in France, Rio de Janeiro, and Tel Aviv. Receives the Silver Medal of Honour of the City of Paris. 1960 – Performs in Madrid, Greece, Belgium, and Tunisia, returning to Paris for another season at the Olympia and at the nightclub Bobino. The album Amália à Bobino is released, featuring Portuguese, Spanish, Brazilian, and French songs. 1961 – Marries César Seabra in Rio de Janeiro, announcing her intention to end her artistic career. Gives occasional performances in Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo, and on Portuguese public television. 1962 – Returns permanently to Portugal. Performs in Madrid, Angola, Edinburgh, and Paris, notably at the nightclub La Tête de l’Art. Begins her collaboration with Alain Oulman, recording the album Busto once again for the Valentim de Carvalho label. This partnership marks a major turning point in her career, as she begins to sing works by the great poets of the Portuguese language. 1963 – Performs in Beirut, at the Church of St. Francis, during the Mass of Thanksgiving for Lebanon’s Independence Day. The album For Your Delight is released. Performs in Paris and at the Savoy nightclub in London. 1964 – Appears in the Portuguese film Fado Corrido , written and directed by Jorge Brum do Canto. Performs in Rome, Biarritz, Taormina, Monte Carlo, Mexico City, Belgium, Italy, and Paris. “The only thing I can’t stand is when someone comes to me and says: ‘Oh Amália, honestly, O Cochicho, honestly, É ou não É. That’s not for you!’ And then perhaps the same people will say: ‘Oh Amália, honestly, Alain, honestly, Camões!’ I’ve always seen that people have no sense of judgment. The one who knows what suits me is myself — and the public has always stood by me.” Amália Rodrigues 1965 – Appears in As Ilhas Encantadas , directed by Carlos Vilardebó, for which she receives that year’s SNI Award for Best Actress. Releases the albums Amália canta Luís Vaz de Camões and Fado Português , featuring poems by José Régio, Luís de Macedo, Pedro Homem de Mello, and Alexandre O’Neill, all set to music by Alain Oulman. Performs in France, Spain, Belgium, and the Netherlands. Takes part in the gala L’union des Artistes , performing at the Cirque d’Hiver with a small elephant. 1966 – Invited by André Kostelanetz, performs with his symphonic orchestra at New York’s Lincoln Center and later at the Hollywood Bowl in Los Angeles. Serves on the jury of the Festival da Canção Popular in Rio de Janeiro. Appears in the French film Via Macau , where she sings Le Premier Jour du Monde . Performs in Tel Aviv, Haifa, Jerusalem, Netanya, Paris, Johannesburg, Mozambique, and Angola. Wins the Pozal Domingues Award for the album Fandangueiro . 1967 – Performs in Cannes at the World Festival of Light Music. Receives the M.I.D.E.M Award as the best-selling artist in her country — a distinction repeated in subsequent years and matched only by the Beatles. Releases the album Fados 67 , featuring reinterpretations of past successes. Given her recognition in France, the Olympiades du Music-Hall are created in honor of Portugal, where she invites several Portuguese artists to perform with her in Paris. 1968 – Stars in the play Sapateira Prodigiosa on RTP, directed by Fernando Frazão. Releases the album Vou dar de beber à dor , a record-breaking success in Portugal, with versions translated into French, Italian, and Spanish. Performs in Madrid, Brașov, New York, and Montreal. Receives from the Spanish state the Order of Isabella the Catholic , Lazo de Dama. Records, in her living room, an album with Vinicius de Moraes, joined by poets David Mourão‑Ferreira, Natália Correia, and Ary dos Santos reciting poetry. 1969 – Embarks on an extensive tour of the USSR, performing in Leningrad, Moscow, Tbilisi, Yerevan, and Baku. Performs in Athens, Cannes (M.I.D.E.M Awards), Mozambique, Rhodesia, South Africa, and New York. Releases the album Marchas Populares , featuring both traditional and original marches. Performs as Guest of Honour at the Festival du Marais in Paris. 1970 – Performs for the first time in Japan, at Expo ’70. Releases the album Com que voz , considered her masterpiece, in which she sings works by Camões, Cecília Meireles, Manuel Alegre, and David Mourão‑Ferreira, among others, set to music by Alain Oulman. Receives from the then President of the Republic, Américo Thomaz, the Military Order of Saint James of the Sword , rank of Officer. Performs in Rome, Milan, New York, Osaka, Tokyo, Venice, Campione, and Viareggio. 1971 – Receives from the Lebanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs the Order of the Cedars of Lebanon. Makes a brief appearance in the Brazilian soap opera Os deuses estão mortos for TV Record. Releases the album Cantigas de Amigos , featuring troubadour poetry in collaboration with Natália Correia and Ary dos Santos. Performs in Rome, London, Milan, Torremolinos, Berlin, Angola, and Beirut. The album Canta Portugal , a folk collection with orchestra, is released. 1972 – Embarks on extended tours of Australia and Italy. Stars in the show Um Amor de Amália at the Canecão in Rio de Janeiro, where, in addition to singing, she tells stories from her life. Performs at the 9th Carthage International Festival. Releases the albums Um Amor de Amália – ao vivo and Folclore à guitarra e à viola . ​ 1973 – Performs in Stockholm, Barcelona, Rio de Janeiro, Paris, and Beirut. Undertakes a new tour of Italy, performing in Turin, Perugia, Palermo, Catania, and Milan. Owing to her extensive tours in Italy, the album A una terra che amo is released, made up of songs from various regions of the country. Is awarded the Diapasão de Ouro for Best Light Music Singer in Europe and the Trullo d’Oro, both in Italy. Releases the album Encontro , in which she is accompanied by American tenor saxophonist Don Byas. ​ 1974 – Performs at the Coliseu dos Recreios in Lisbon, in Madrid, Monaco, Funchal, and Paris. Undertakes a new “ il giro d’Italia ”, giving 82 concerts. 1975 – Performs at Carnegie Hall in New York, in Canada, Luxembourg, France, and the Netherlands. Embarks on extensive tours throughout Portugal. 1976 – Is invited to perform at the Théâtre des Champs-Élysées in Paris, in Bucharest, Japan, Romania, Brazil, and Italy, and also undertakes an extensive tour of Portugal. The album Le Cadeau de la Vie is released by UNESCO, in which she appears alongside John Lennon, Maria Callas, and Daniel Barenboim, as well as the album Amália no Café Luso , recorded in 1955 and regarded as the best document of her performances in Lisbon. 1977 – Performs in Amsterdam, Brussels, Tel Aviv, Jerusalem, Ashar, Haifa, Beersheba, and Yifat, as well as in Madrid, London, New York, and Cannes. The album Cantigas numa Língua Antiga is released, with music by Alain Oulman and lyrics by Luís Vaz de Camões, Pedro Homem de Mello, Manuel Alegre, and Ary dos Santos. 1978 – Performs in Johannesburg, Kinshasa, Montreal, Ottawa, Caracas, Buenos Aires, Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo, Geneva, Lausanne, Neuchâtel, and Brussels. 1979 – Takes a brief break from her musical career due to a health problem. Performs in Palermo, the Netherlands, Belgium, Haarlem, São Paulo, Berlin, and Rio de Janeiro. 1980 – Receives the Order of Prince Henry, rank of Officer, from the then President of the Republic, Ramalho Eanes. Performs in Utrecht, Rotterdam, The Hague, Tilburg, Brussels, Newport, and Bergen. Releases the album Gostava de ser quem era , featuring only poems of her own authorship. 1981 – Performs in Geneva, Montreux, Lausanne, Bahia, Sierre, São Paulo, Buenos Aires, Santiago de Chile, Berlin, Italy, Argentina, Chile, Rio de Janeiro, the Netherlands, Cape Town, and Johannesburg. 1982 – Due to illness, gives only occasional performances in France and Portugal. Releases the album Amália volta a cantar Frederico Valério , featuring reinterpretations of major themes. 1983 – Serves as guest of honour at the Athens Song Festival, and also performs in Brazil, South Africa, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Argentina. Releases the album Lágrima , entirely with poems of her own authorship. 1984 – Takes a break due to serious illness, undergoing treatment in the United States. The album Amália on Broadway is released, in which she sings traditional American music accompanied by Norrie Paramor, recorded in 1965. 1985 – Makes a triumphant comeback at the Portuguese Coliseums. Performs in Paris, Algeria, Canada, and Spain. Receives from the French Minister of Culture, Jack Lang, the Order of Arts and Letters, rank of Commander. Toronto declares October 6 as Official Amália Rodrigues Day. 1986 – Is honored at the Casino de Paris. Performs in Paris, Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya, the Netherlands, Belgium, Turkey, London, and Italy. The book Amália, uma biografia by Vítor Pavão dos Santos is published, along with the video-concert Amália no Japão . Receives the Gold Medal of the City of Porto. 1987 – Performs in Paris, the USA, Brazil, Milan, Rome, Toronto, Japan, Luxembourg, Belgium, and the Netherlands. The triple LP No Coliseu is released, recorded live at the Coliseu dos Recreios. The collection Amália: 50 anos is issued, with 8 CDs covering all aspects of her discography. Is received in private audience by Pope John Paul II at the Vatican. Receives the Médaille de Vermeil from the City of Paris and is honored in Rome. 1988 – Performs in Italy, Sweden, the Netherlands, and Luxembourg. 1989 – Celebrates 50 years of professional artistic activity, performing in Spain, France, Switzerland, Portugal, Israel, India, Macau, South Korea, Japan, Belgium, the United States, and Italy. 1990 – Grand celebration of her 50th career anniversary at the Coliseu dos Recreios, entering the stage to the sound of the National Anthem and receiving the Grand Cross of the Order of Saint James of the Sword on stage from President Mário Soares. Performs in Santiago de Compostela, Lisbon, Paris, Porto, Versailles, Lyon, Barcelona, Capri, Mérida, El Escorial, Arles, Seoul, Macau, Goa, Geneva, Bilbao, Verona, Granada, Córdoba, and Strasbourg. Honored at the Théâtre des Champs-Élysées with the program Amália Jubile . Awarded the Medal of Honor from the Complutense University of Madrid and the Medal of Tel Aviv. Receives from the Spanish government the Grand Cross of Isabella the Catholic. Releases the album Obsessão , featuring new songs by major poets, nearly all composed by Amália’s personal guitarist, Carlos Gonçalves. 1991 – Receives the Legion of Honour, rank of Knight, from French President François Mitterrand. Performs in Italy, Brazil, Spain, Turkey, France, Mexico, Greece, and Cape Verde. 1992 – Performs in France, Italy, and Spain. The photobiography Amália: Uma Estranha Forma de Vida by Vítor Pavão dos Santos is published. The video-concert Amália in New York is released. 1993 – Performs in Spain, Luxembourg, Brazil, Argentina, France, Switzerland, Tunisia, and Japan. 1994 – Performs in France. Gives the last recital of her career at the Coliseu dos Recreios in Lisbon. 1995 – É publicado o disco Pela Primeira Vez , com as gravações feitas em 1945. É divulgado o documentário Art of Amália , actualmente em DVD, onde Amália nos leva a passear por toda a sua vida artística. 1996 – Pausa por doença grave. 1997 – Lançamento do livro Versos que reúne toda a poesia escrita por Amália. Falece o marido César Seabra depois de 42 anos de relação. É editado o disco Segredo . “For me, true love is the one that doesn’t disappoint (…) César is well-mannered, he never disappointed me, never said those things I don’t like to hear (…). There’s a certain balance between us.” Amália Rodrigues 1998 – Is honored at the Teatro Camões during Expo ’98 in Lisbon. 1999 – Is honored at the French Cinematheque. Dies on October 6 at her home on Rua de São Bento from a heart attack. Three days of national mourning are declared, with the highest public and state honors. On December 11, 1999, the Amália Rodrigues Foundation is established per her explicit wish in her will. 2001 – Her remains are transferred to the Church of Santa Engrácia, becoming the first Portuguese woman to receive the honors of the National Pantheon. On July 23, the Amália Rodrigues Casa-Museu at 193 Rua de São Bento in Lisbon—her home for 45 years—opens to the public for the first time. 2011 – Fado is declared Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity, with special thanks in its candidacy to Amália’s work over more than 50 years of career. Information taken from the work Amália, uma Biografia by Vítor Pavão dos Santos and the catalogue Amália: Coração Independente , 2009. Fundação Amália Rodrigues