Fashion House | Ted Lapidus Ted Lapidus Paris Français English Español Collections Spring-Summer 2020 Discover Fall-Winter 2019/2020 Discover Fragrances New Women Discover Women Fragrances Discover Men Fragrances Discover New Men Discover The House Contacts Languages : En Select a Language Select a Language Select an option below. Français English Español History of the Fashion House Ted Lapidus Born on 23 June 1929 in Paris, Mr Ted LAPIDUS, the Brand’s founder, was one of the first French designers to take his vision of fashion from the streets, drawing inspiration from the “uniform” style or the “unisex” spirit. The marine style has been the favourite theme of this passionate sea lover since the end of the war. It all started with one of his friends’ massive stockpile of military medals; Ted began to “work” with them and turn them into buttons onto which he engraved an anchor and two fleurs-de-lis. This became his logo, his emblem. He created his own fashion house in 1951. In 1963, he joined the Chambre Syndicale de la Haute Couture Parisienne (Paris Haute Couture Trade Association) Its totally innovative fashion combines perfectly-cut clothing with inventive and fanciful detail. He was one of the most successful designers, best loved by the stars at the time, including Brigitte BARDOT , Marlène JOBERT or John LENNON, who commissioned the famous white suit he wears on the cover of the BEATLES’ iconic “Abbey Road” album “ The couture is for the rich. I want young people to have... Beauty. ” Ted Lapidus Ted LAPIDUS always drew his fashion sketches with the same small doll’s head, nicknamed “the Lapidus doll” or “Koukla”. If featured in collections from 1972 to 1975 for accessories such as pendants, belts, bracelets and on printed embroidery for women’s ready-to-wear lines. Ted Lapidus fragrances were successfully launched in partnership with l'Oréal in 1970. It is also during this time that Ted LAPIDUS developed its licensing network in European countries. The TED LAPIDUS brand became the property of the Jacques Bogart Group in 1995. Since then, it has continued to grow and shine on the international stage, by providing carefully selected fashion items and fragrances throughout the world. Top of the page Collections Spring-Summer 2020 Fall-Winter 2019/2020 Fragrances The House Contacts Contacts @Ted Lapidus 2018