Sport: The Power Shovel Skip to Content Menu Close Subscribe U.S. Sport: The Power Shovel ADD TIME ON GOOGLE by TIME Dec 27, 1954 5:00 AM UTC by TIME Dec 27, 1954 5:00 AM UTC Middleweight Champion Carl (“Bobo”) Olson goes about his ring work in the methodical, workmanlike way of a power shovel moving a specified amount of earth. A power shovel lacks drama, but there are always sidewalk superintendents around to watch. Last week 16,543 superintendents, paying $107,660, flocked into San Francisco’s Cow Palace—joining millions of free lookers on TV—to watch Bobo defend his title against France’s Pierre Langlois. Boxer Langlois, who was a substitute for Joey Giardello (who had a knee injury), was game but overmatched. In the sixth round, Olson opened a cut over Langlois’ left eye. In the eleventh, another Olson punch knocked the dressing off and left the cut looking like a blackish mussel shell, gaping in the middle. After a conference with the ring doctor, the referee awarded the fight to Olson on a technical knockout. Television viewers, who could not plainly see the cut or the blood and wondered why the bout was halted in the middle of a round, felt cheated. But later photographs showed that the Frenchman’s eye was in really bad shape. It was Olson’s 18th straight victory. Although no Sugar Ray Robinson (his predecessor as middleweight champ), Olson is at least active, having defended his title three times this year. The week before the Langlois fight, boxing writers awarded Olson the Edward J. Neil Memorial Plaque as Fighter of the Year. Sections Home Politics Health AI World Business Science Climate Ideas Entertainment Sports Technology Newsletters More The TIME Vault TIME Africa TIME France TIME For Kids TIME Futures TIME Studios Video Red Border Supplied Partner Content About Us Our Mission Contact the Editors Press Room Media Kit Reprints & Permissions Masthead Careers Site Map Modern Slavery Statement Your Subscriptions Subscribe Access My Digital Magazine Manage My Subscription Global Help Center Buy an Issue Shop the Cover Store Give a Gift © 2026 TIME USA, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service , Privacy Policy and Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information . TIME may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.