The Youngest Couturier in the World - Musée Yves Saint Laurent Paris Accéder au contenu principal Available translation for this page Fr En Main navigation Visit the museum Visit us What's on? The museum is closed today. 5, avenue Marceau 75116 Paris, France Plan my journey Learn about Yves Saint Laurent Learn about Yves Saint Laurent Interactive Biographies Chronicles Online Collection Museum Musée Yves Saint Laurent Paris External Exhibitions Venue Rental Musée Yves Saint Laurent Marrakech Discover the other museum devoted to Yves Saint Laurent in the city he loved so dearly. Visit the website La Fondation Fondation Pierre Bergé - Yves Saint Laurent Conservation Past exhibitions at the Fondation (2004 - 2016) Patronage Yves Saint Laurent - Authentification Tickets Visitor Information 实用信息 来館のご案内 Información práctica Informazioni pratiche Praktische Informationen Visitor Information Return to list November 15, 1957 The Youngest Couturier in the World Related to Yves Saint Laurent According to the couturier’s wishes, Yves Saint Laurent was officially designated as Christian Dior’s successor. He had never managed a haute couture house. At the time, the house of Dior was the most important one in the world, exporting almost 50% of French haute couture sales and representing eight companies and sixteen firms based on all five continents. 1,400 people worked for this empire, which was worth two billion francs in revenues when Saint Laurent was appointed head. Galerie Yves Saint Laurent in his studio, House of Christian Dior, 30 avenue Montaigne, Paris, 1958. Photograph by Étienne Hubert. © Etienne Hubert - DR Yves Saint Laurent with his collection boards for the house of Christian Dior, Paris, 1960. Photograph by André Ostier. © Les ayants droit d'André Ostier Contenu lié Read the Story dedicated to Yves Saint Laurent's first steps at Christian Dior The Dior Years Learn more January 30, 1958 First Collection and First Success Related to Fashion Venue Rental Contact Press © Musée Yves Saint Laurent Paris, Legal Notice and Website Terms of Use We use cookies to improve your experience on our website. By continuing to browse this website, you consent to their use. For more information, click here .