Ernst Kaltenbrunner | Holocaust Encyclopedia Skip to main content Menu Must Reads ▾ Introduction to the Holocaust German-Soviet Pact Warsaw Uprising World War I The Nazi Olympics: Berlin 1936 Treblinka Varian Fry Anne Frank Biography: Who was Anne Frank? Antisemitism: An Introduction Home Search Language English ▾ عربي (Arabic) 汉语 (Chinese) فارسی (Farsi) français (French) Deutsch (German) Ελληνικά (Greek) हिंदी (Hindi) Magyar (Hungarian) Indonesia (Indonesian) Italiano (Italian) 日本語 (Japanese) 한국어 (Korean) polski (Polish) Português - Brasil (Portuguese-Brazil) русский (Russian) Español (Spanish) Türkçe (Turkish) Українська (Ukrainian) اُردو (Urdu) Featured Content Tags Find topics of interest and explore encyclopedia content related to those topics Browse A-Z Find articles, photos, maps, films, and more listed alphabetically For Teachers Recommended resources and topics if you have limited time to teach about the Holocaust ID Cards Explore the ID Cards to learn more about personal experiences during the Holocaust Timeline of Events Explore a timeline of events that occurred before, during, and after the Holocaust. Audio Narrations Explore all content with human-read audio versions. Must Reads Introduction to the Holocaust German-Soviet Pact Warsaw Uprising World War I The Nazi Olympics: Berlin 1936 Treblinka Varian Fry Anne Frank Biography: Who was Anne Frank? Antisemitism: An Introduction About this site Close menu Search the Holocaust Encyclopedia Enter your search term here Content types All categories ▾ Animated Map Article Artifact Audio Discussion Question Document Film ID Card Map Media Essay Oral History Photo Series Song Timeline Timeline Event Clear Selections Language English عربي (Arabic) 汉语 (Chinese) فارسی (Farsi) français (French) Deutsch (German) Ελληνικά (Greek) हिंदी (Hindi) Magyar (Hungarian) Indonesia (Indonesian) Italiano (Italian) 日本語 (Japanese) 한국어 (Korean) polski (Polish) Português - Brasil (Portuguese-Brazil) русский (Russian) Español (Spanish) Türkçe (Turkish) Українська (Ukrainian) اُردو (Urdu) ▾ Search Trending keywords: Close search menu Your browser is out of date and may not support some of the features of this webpage. Please consider updating your browser or using another. More information about this image Ernst Kaltenbrunner In the immediate aftermath of the Holocaust, the world was faced with a challenge—how to hold individually accountable those German leaders who were responsible for the commission of monstrous crimes against humanity and international peace. The International Military Tribunal (IMT) held in Nuremberg, Germany, attempted to face this immense challenge. On October 18, 1945, the chief prosecutors of the IMT brought charges against 24 leading German officials, among them Ernst Kaltenbrunner. Close Image Lightbox Skip complementary section (continue reading) Cite Share Print Tags International Military Tribunal war crimes trials Ernst Kaltenbrunner police Final Solution perpetrators Nuremberg This content is available in the following languages Close language menu Ernst Kaltenbrunner (1903–1946) was Chief of the Reich Security Main Office (RSHA) and later Chief of the Security Police. In this second position, Kaltenbrunner controlled the Gestapo (German Secret State Police), Criminal Police , and Security Service (SD). He was a prime figure in the “ Final Solution ” in the last years of the war. At the International Military Tribunal in Nuremberg, Kaltenbrunner was found guilty on counts three and four (war crimes and crimes against humanity). He sentenced to death and was hanged on October 16, 1946. [caption=89bba4f9-0147-416a-8cc9-40fd60938498] - [credit=89bba4f9-0147-416a-8cc9-40fd60938498] Author(s): United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, Washington, DC See Also International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg Article International Military Tribunal: The Defendants Article Perpetrators Article International Military Tribunal: Defendants Series Glossary Terms Series: International Military Tribunal: Defendants Series: International Military Tribunal: Defendants Item 1 of 2 Items 1 through 1 of 2 Items 1 through 1 of 2 1 International Military Tribunal: The Defendants ••• 2 Gustav Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach ••• 3 Robert Ley ••• 4 Martin Bormann ••• 5 Karl Dönitz ••• 6 Hans Frank ••• 7 Wilhelm Frick ••• 8 Hans Fritzsche ••• 9 Walther Funk ••• 10 Hermann Göring ••• 11 Rudolf Hess ••• 12 Alfred Jodl ••• 13 Ernst Kaltenbrunner ••• 14 Wilhelm Keitel ••• 15 Erich Raeder ••• 16 Alfred Rosenberg ••• 17 Fritz Sauckel ••• 18 Hjalmar Schacht ••• 19 Arthur Seyss-Inquart ••• 20 Albert Speer ••• 21 Julius Streicher ••• 22 Konstantin von Neurath ••• 23 Franz von Papen ••• 24 Joachim von Ribbentrop ••• 25 Baldur von Schirach Critical Thinking Questions How did national histories, agendas, and priorities affect the effort to try war criminals after the war? The International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg is the best known of postwar trials. Investigate trials conducted by individual countries in the late 1940s. Besides military leaders and government officials, which professions were specifically investigated in trials? Beyond the verdicts, what impact might war crimes trials have? Feedback Thank you for supporting our work We would like to thank Crown Family Philanthropies, Abe and Ida Cooper Foundation, the Claims Conference, and BMF for supporting the ongoing work to create content and resources for the Holocaust Encyclopedia. View the list of all donors . Glossary Full Glossary Close glossary 100 Raoul Wallenberg Place, SW Washington, DC 20024-2126 Main telephone: 202.488.0400 TTY: 202.488.0406 Get the Latest News E-mail Address Postal Code Plan Your Visit Current Exhibitions Calendar of Events Support the Museum Donate Learn Teach Collections Academic Research Remember Survivors and Victims Genocide Prevention Antisemitism and Holocaust Denial Outreach Holocaust Encyclopedia Collections Search Holocaust Survivors and Victims Resource Center History Unfolded Experiencing History Early Warning Project About the Museum Contact the Museum Terms of Use Privacy Accessibility Legal