Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis names Neel Kashkari as president and chief executive officer, effective Jan. 1, 2016 | Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis Skip to main content Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis: Pursuing an Economy that works for all of us. Search Close Menu Close Neel Kashkari named president and CEO of Minneapolis Fed, effective Jan. 1, 2016 Minneapolis, November 10, 2015 Neel Kashkari named president and CEO of Minneapolis Fed, effective Jan. 1, 2016 Share Facebook LinkedIn Twitter The Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis announced today that Neel Kashkari has been appointed its 13th president and chief executive officer, effective Jan. 1, 2016. Narayana Kocherlakota will end his tenure as president and CEO on Dec. 31. Kocherlakota has led the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis since 2009 and announced in December 2014 that he would not seek reappointment following the conclusion of his term in February 2016. Watch Deputy Board Chair MayKao Hang announce the appointment of Mr. Kashkari. As president of the Minneapolis Fed, Kashkari will participate on the Federal Open Market Committee in the formulation of U.S. monetary policy. He will oversee 1,100 employees in Minneapolis and Helena, Mont., who conduct economic research, supervise financial institutions and provide payments services to commercial banks and the U.S. government, along with other supporting activities. Kashkari, 42, has had a varied career spanning both the private and public sectors. In the private sector, he was most recently managing director and member of the executive office at PIMCO. In January 2013, he resigned from the firm to explore a run for public office. One year later, he announced his candidacy for governor of California. He came in second in California’s nonpartisan blanket primary, but lost the general election to incumbent governor Jerry Brown. Prior to joining PIMCO in 2009, Kashkari served in the U.S. Department of the Treasury from 2006 to 2009, first as senior adviser to Secretary Henry Paulson and then as assistant secretary of the Treasury. In the latter role, he established and led the Office of Financial Stability and oversaw the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) for both Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama. Before joining the Treasury Department, Kashkari was a vice president at Goldman Sachs in San Francisco. Previously, he was an aerospace engineer at TRW Corp. Kashkari holds an MBA from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania and bachelor’s and master’s degrees in mechanical engineering from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. “The class B and C directors were unanimous and enthusiastic in appointing Mr. Kashkari to be the next president and CEO of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. Mr. Kashkari is the right person to build on the Minneapolis Fed’s core strengths and successfully lead the Bank into the future,” said Randall Hogan, chairman of the Minneapolis Fed’s board of directors and co-chair of the search committee. “Mr. Kashkari is an influential leader whose combined experience in the public and private sectors makes him the ideal candidate to head the Minneapolis Fed,” said MayKao Hang, incoming chair of the Minneapolis Fed’s board of directors and co-chair of the search committee. “We were fortunate to have outstanding candidates during our national search. Mr. Kashkari stood out because of his inspiring leadership skills, solutions-oriented nature, collaborative style and deep commitment to public service,” she added. “I am truly honored to have the opportunity to lead the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. I look forward to working with the Bank’s dedicated staff and continuing the Bank’s long-standing tradition of excellent service to the Ninth Federal Reserve District and to the nation,” Kashkari said. “The Minneapolis Fed has built a strong reputation for economic research and thought leadership as well as excellence in Bank operations. I am delighted that I will be working with the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis team to build on the Bank’s many achievements.” The Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis is one of 12 regional Reserve Banks that, with the Board of Governors in Washington, D.C., make up the Federal Reserve System, the nation’s central bank. The Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis is responsible for the Ninth Federal Reserve District, which includes Montana, North and South Dakota, Minnesota, northwestern Wisconsin and the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. The Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis participates in setting national monetary policy, supervises numerous banking organizations and provides a variety of payments services to financial institutions and the U.S. government. Related Information: Neel Kashkari’s official bio Timeline for Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis search How is a Federal Reserve Bank president selected? Deputy Chair MayKao Hang announces new Minneapolis Fed president (transcript) More on the president search process at the Minneapolis Fed Download a high-resolution portrait photo of Neel Kashkari [JPEG, 11.2mb] Media Contact Danielle Cabot (612) 477-4519 danielle.cabot@mpls.frb.org Sign up for news and events Sign up for emails to get the latest news, research, and information from the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis We serve the public by pursuing a growing economy and stable financial system that work for all of us. LEARN MORE About Us Research Region & Community Banking Policy News & Events Contact Us Careers President Kashkari Economic Research Center for Indian Country Development Opportunity & Inclusive Growth Institute Sign up for news and events LinkedIn Instagram Threads Facebook Twitter © 2026 Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. All Rights Reserved. Disclaimer Accessibility Privacy Transparency