RG Culture: Who was Philippe Chatrier? - Roland-Garros 2026 - The official site × News Tournament RG Spirit Visit &amp; Tickets Store × ROLAND-GARROS 17 May - 6 June 2027 News Tournament RG Spirit Visit & Tickets Store Select your language FR - Français EN - English Notifications Center Notifications Settings Don't miss any news by activating notifications! Subscribe to web notifications Follow my favorite players Be careful, if you block web notifications in your browser, you will not be able to activate them here anymore. You will need to do it in your browser settings. Information have been collected by our partner Wonderpush, and used by CCM Benchmark Group, to ensure the push notification sending about what you subscribed for. You have the right to access to you personnal data, and to ask the deletion of them according to the limitations foreseen by the law. Your notifications personnal data: DOWNLOAD / DELETE Display Settings Dark Mode by You reduce your energy consumption with the Dark mode ! Did you know that? A black pixel uses less energy to illuminate your screen. Thank you for using the Dark Mode by You reduce your energy consumption with the Dark mode ! Did you know, a dark pixel consumes less energy to illuminate your screen. More and more applications and operating systems offer this solution to save energy and improve energy efficiency. Indeed, a black pixel consumes less energy to illuminate the screen, and thus allows to reduce by 63% the part of battery consumed by the screen. By using the dark mode function, you contribute to directly reduce your environmental impact. Learn more about our partnership with ENGIE. https://www.engie.com/en/partner-french-open-2022 RG Culture: Who was Philippe Chatrier? Philippe Chatrier passed away 20 years ago this year. We take a look back at the life and actions of this ambassador for tennis. ©FFT Wednesday 24 June 2020 - Lauriane Labes Philippe Chatrier was born in 1928, the year that Roland-Garros stadium was built. Destined for a life in tennis, he started playing in 1941. Crowned French junior champion in 1945 and French No.6 in 1951, he quickly realised that his actions off the court could also prove very useful to his sport. At the heart of tennis’ evolution With the publication of Tennis de France magazine in 1953, he was able to express his opinion on several subjects, particularly the idea of setting up a tournament that would combine professional and amateur tennis. His activism and presence on the FFT’s most important committees finally bore fruit and led to the creation of the Open Era in 1968. Philippe Chatrier was ambitious and a natural born leader. At the end of the 1960s, he was both captain of France’s Davis Cup team and vice-president of the Federation. In 1972, he became president of the French Lawn Tennis Federation, taking over from his friend Marcel Bernard. Always deeply committed to the tennis world, at the same time he was elected president of the International Tennis Federation in 1977. His greatest victory in this role was getting tennis back into the Seoul Olympics in 1988, after a 64-year hiatus. ©Gil de Kermadec / FFT Boosting momentum at Roland-Garros A visionary in all of his projects as president, Philippe Chatrier was keen for Roland-Garros to be awarded Grand Slam status. This required the stadium to be renovated, as it had become run-down over the years. Large-scale building works were launched in the early 1970s and were only completed in 1994 with the new extension phase and the construction of Suzanne-Lenglen court. In addition to developing and extending the stadium, Philippe Chatrier stepped Roland-Garros up a gear by getting the tournament broadcast on television and setting up a new public relations policy. These major changes were what pushed the tournament onto the international stage. Philippe Chatrier’s name will forever echo around the stadium grounds thanks to the immense arena – the beating heart of the tournament – that was named after him and whose metamorphosis is finally complete. ©Droits réservés News feed 08/15 WTA/ATP: Swiatek and Shelton land Canadian silverware 08/10 ATP: Young guns make history in Montreal 08/04 ATP/WTA: Eala strikes back for Washington milestone 07/27 WTA/ATP: Maiden titles for Tagger and Van Assche 07/20 ATP/WTA: Tsitsipas and Krejcikova return to winner’s circle 07/12 Wimbledon 2026: Winner winner, Jannik Sinner 07/12 Wimbledon 2026 – Men's final: What to expect? 07/11 Wimbledon 2026: Noskova survives Muchova comeback to rule SW19 07/11 Wimbledon 2026 – Women's final: What to expect? Other stories See all news ©Christophe Guibbaud / FFT Tuesday 9 June 2020 Roland-Garros: a solidarity sale of beautiful photographs ©Regis Sirvent / FFT Sunday 7 June 2020 One day, one epic match: Lendl - McEnroe (Final 1984) Tuesday 24 March 2020 Portrait of Arthur Ashe by Eduardo Arroyo Discover the Roland-Garros Official app Download No Thanks Partners Main partner Premium partners Official partners See all partners ABOUT Accessibility: partially compliant Legal notice Privacy / cookies Privacy center USEFUL LINKS Tickets Store Rolex Paris Masters Paris Padel Major Follow us! ©2026 - all rights reserved - Fédération française de tennis