Andrée Putman—the 90s Style Icon Who Designed the First Boutique Hotel and the Interiors for the Concorde—Is Back in the Spotlight | Architectural Digest Skip to main content AD PRO DIRECTORY APPLY NOW DIRECTORY ARCHITECTURE + DESIGN SHOPPING CELEBRITY AD IT YOURSELF AD PRO Menu Menu Directory Architecture + Design Shopping Celebrity AD It Yourself AD Pro Real Estate Lifestyle MORE VIDEO THE MAGAZINE NEWSLETTERS Search Menu Magazine Andrée Putman—the 90s Style Icon Who Designed the First Boutique Hotel and the Interiors for the Concorde—Is Back in the Spotlight Long revered by the design cognoscenti, the late Parisian éminence grise is having a moment as renewed global interest fuels the resurgence of her eponymous brand By Hannah Martin August 10, 2026 Portraits of Andrée Putman, 2006. Portrait: Jean Larivière Save this story Save this story "There’s a rumor floating around that you know how to do bathrooms without marble.” As Andrée Putman tells it, this is what Studio 54 owners Ian Schrager and Steve Rubell said in 1984 when they asked her to design Morgans, now heralded as the world’s first boutique hotel. Indeed, the Parisian talent didn’t need any richly figured stone to make a statement. Instead she splashed every guest bath in unforgettable grids of inexpensive black-and-white tile, a signature that would earn her the nickname La Reine du Damier, or Queen of the Checkerboard. Back in production, Putman’s tile-clad Mille et un Carré table is pictured in the Paris dining room of Jean-Paul Goude, circa 1992. Photo: Deidi Von Schaewen The bedroom is tucked away behind a pair of elegant metallic gauze curtains - a simple and effecitve solution to maximise living space Photo: Mark Luscombe-Whyte/Trunk Archive For the centennial of Putman’s birth, the design world has been reflecting on that project and on her many other spaces that epitomized the 1980s and ’90s—from quietly luxurious cabins of the Concorde to her own Paris loft to the Art Deco–era pieces by Eileen Gray and Jean-Michel Frank that she revived under her company Ecart International, sold in 1994 and now owned by Pierre Yovanovitch . “In my mind, she was greater than an interior designer; she created atmospheres,” muses designer Rafael de Cárdenas , who, like many of his peers, continues to reference Putman’s restrained, sharp, and surprising body of work. “She had this classicist approach of reducing decoration to its bare minimum. There’s a subtlety to it that is so beguiling.” Voie Lactée, the wool-and-silk rug designed by Putman for her own home in 1978, is now offered in contemporary editions. Photo: Courtesy of Studio Andrée Putman The reissued Compas Dans L’Oeil floor lamp was originally designed in 1988 and later used in the guest rooms at Morgans Hotel. Photo: Courtesy of Studio Andrée Putman Putman's beloved 1984 bathrooms (one shown) for New York's Morgans Hotel featured black-and-white checkerboard tile and industrial metal sinks. Photo: Deidi Von Schaewen In recent months, Aurélie Laure—CEO of the Andrée Putman brand since last year—and the designer’s daughter, Olivia, have been reintroducing that legacy to the world through reeditions and collector’s pieces. “It’s a French company with very French roots, but it has an American story,” notes Laure, explaining their decision to establish a foothold in both countries. In January, they opened a new Paris showroom, followed in May by a space on Manhattan’s Bowery, where Putman once rubbed elbows with artists like Jean-Michel Basquiat, Keith Haring, and Andy Warhol (Olivia spent a summer working from Basquiat’s studio nearby). In 1984, Putman designed office chairs for the French Minister of Culture—now newly available. Photo: Deidi Von Schaewen Pictured at a New York apartment, circa 1985, the Crescent Moon sofa is part of the revived Andrée Putman Studio brand. Photo: Deidi Von Schaewen “If we could have transformed Andrée into a chair, this would have been her.” Olivia Putman on the slender, straight-backed Chaise Croqueuse de Diamants Photo: Courtesy of Studio Andrée Putman “If we could have transformed Andrée into a chair, this would have been her.” Olivia Putman on the slender, straight-backed Chaise Croqueuse de Diamants Now rebranded as Andrée Putman Studio, the interiors and furniture label has launched over 60 designs this year alone, an array that reads a bit like a highlights reel of Putman’s prolific output. They include the Compas Dans L’Oeil floor lamp used in guest rooms at Morgans Hotel; the Agenda de Ministre chair she specified for France’s Ministry of Culture office in 1984; and the white-tile table she conceived for graphic designer Jean-Paul Goude’s Paris home in 1992. The latter is now also available in limited-edition silver leaf, a fresh tribute to her beloved high-low mixes. “She could take something out of its context and into another one,” says interior designer Elliott Barnes, who worked under Putman for 17 years, recalling, for example, the bracelet of industrial ball-bearings that Putman would often wear with a chic nonchalance. “All of a sudden it became fresh and incredibly timeless.” A look back at some iconic projects and new launches confirms her work is still very much that. This story appears in the September issue. Never miss a story when you subscribe to AD . More Great Stories From AD Not a subscriber? Join AD for print and digital access now. Katey Sagal and Kurt Sutter’s Eclectic Los Angeles Home Combines Red Walls and Guitars Hung Like Art Usher’s Designer Nicole Fuller Shares the Secrets Behind His Art Collection 7 Airbnbs in the Cotswolds That Nail English Countryside Charm The 15 Le Corbusier Buildings Everyone Should Know What Should a Rug Cost? Heidi Caillier Says It’s Less Than You Think This 330-Square-Foot Chinatown Rental Was Elegantly Transformed With a $5,000 Budget Office Chairs That Won’t Hurt Your Back, Or Your Aesthetics Coco Brandolini d’Adda Collects the Way She Designs Fashion, and Her Milan Apartment Overflows with the Proof Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the best of design in your inbox. Hannah Martin is the senior design editor at Architectural Digest, where she has worked since 2014. She contributes regular features on emerging talent and design history, often covering subjects that straddle the worlds of art and design. She writes two monthly print columns—'Object Lesson' and 'One To Watch'—as well as ... Read More Senior Design Editor Explore magazine Read More Shopping These Elegant Sideboards and Credenzas Are the Solutions to Your Storage Woes Clutter meets its match with these functional hidden storage solutions By Yelena Moroz Alpert Shopping Patchwork Rugs, Puzzle-Like Coasters, and More Decor on Sale Transition your home to fall with these discounted picks By Kate McGregor Shopping The Best Hangers Are Svelte and Streamlined for Even the Smallest Closets Sort your clothes without creating an eyesore By Blake Bakkila Celebrity Real Estate Where Does Robert De Niro Live? Here’s His New York–Centric Real Estate Portfolio The NYC native's name is synonymous with the city—especially Tribeca—for good reason By Joyce Chen Architecture + Design A 592-Square-Foot Garden Apartment in Normandy Gets an Earthy Olive Overhaul The 30-something owners loved their apartment’s original moldings and parquet floors—but hated its 18th-century layout By Nicolas Milon Shopping The Best Sofas We’ve Ever Tested From structured seating to sink-in comfort By Kate McGregor Grow Your Business The Art of Operations: To Build From Within or Strategically Delegate? In this virtual roundtable, architect Bryan Young and interior designers Corey Damen Jenkins and Cheryl Eisen share their lessons learned as they’ve scaled their teams and management systems By AD PRO Architecture + Design This Roman Designer Renovated Her Historic Home with Romantic Gardens in Mind Ludovica Malagò’s condo blends botanical influences, rainbow mosaics, and vintage straw furnishings By Francesca Longoni Shopping The Best Toilet Paper Holders for Design-Minded Bathrooms Bid farewell to the renter-grade hardware By Kate McGregor AD-it-Yourself 11 Indoor Flowering Plants for Bold Blooms That Last So long, sad grocery store bouquets—these indoor flowering plants will be your best buds By Amelia Mularz Travel The Best Airbnbs in Prague, From Bohemian Retreats to Modern Dwellings These elegant stays juxtapose historic bones with a host of contemporary features By Madeline Weinfield Shopping Designers Say You Should Be Doubling Up on Drapery Read their tips on how to make the dramatic window treatments your own By Kate McGregor Our website, archdigest.com, offers constant original coverage of the interior design and architecture worlds, new shops and products, travel destinations, art and cultural events, celebrity style, and high-end real estate as well as access to print features and images from the AD archives. Subscriptions Subscribe Manage Account Give a Gift Verify Subscription Connect with AD About AD Contact the Editors Newsletter Sign Up Contact Advertising Membership FAQs General FAQs Contact Us Where To Buy Art Best Furniture Stores User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights Condé Nast Store Careers Accessibility Help Site Map © 2026 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Architectural Digest may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices Select international site United States China España France Germany India Italia México Middle East Polska