Adolf Eichmann: Key Dates | Holocaust Encyclopedia Skip to main content Menu Must Reads ▾ Introduction to the Holocaust German-Soviet Pact Warsaw Uprising World War I The Nazi Olympics: Berlin 1936 Treblinka Varian Fry Anne Frank Biography: Who was Anne Frank? Antisemitism: An Introduction Home Search Language English ▾ عربي (Arabic) 汉语 (Chinese) فارسی (Farsi) français (French) Deutsch (German) Ελληνικά (Greek) हिंदी (Hindi) Magyar (Hungarian) Indonesia (Indonesian) Italiano (Italian) 日本語 (Japanese) 한국어 (Korean) polski (Polish) Português - Brasil (Portuguese-Brazil) русский (Russian) Español (Spanish) Türkçe (Turkish) Українська (Ukrainian) اُردو (Urdu) Featured Content Tags Find topics of interest and explore encyclopedia content related to those topics Browse A-Z Find articles, photos, maps, films, and more listed alphabetically For Teachers Recommended resources and topics if you have limited time to teach about the Holocaust ID Cards Explore the ID Cards to learn more about personal experiences during the Holocaust Timeline of Events Explore a timeline of events that occurred before, during, and after the Holocaust. Audio Narrations Explore all content with human-read audio versions. Must Reads Introduction to the Holocaust German-Soviet Pact Warsaw Uprising World War I The Nazi Olympics: Berlin 1936 Treblinka Varian Fry Anne Frank Biography: Who was Anne Frank? Antisemitism: An Introduction About this site Close menu Search the Holocaust Encyclopedia Enter your search term here Content types All categories ▾ Animated Map Article Artifact Audio Discussion Question Document Film ID Card Map Media Essay Oral History Photo Series Song Timeline Timeline Event Clear Selections Language English عربي (Arabic) 汉语 (Chinese) فارسی (Farsi) français (French) Deutsch (German) Ελληνικά (Greek) हिंदी (Hindi) Magyar (Hungarian) Indonesia (Indonesian) Italiano (Italian) 日本語 (Japanese) 한국어 (Korean) polski (Polish) Português - Brasil (Portuguese-Brazil) русский (Russian) Español (Spanish) Türkçe (Turkish) Українська (Ukrainian) اُردو (Urdu) ▾ Search Trending keywords: Close search menu Your browser is out of date and may not support some of the features of this webpage. Please consider updating your browser or using another. More information about this image Adolf Eichmann: Key Dates Close Image Lightbox Skip complementary section (continue reading) Cite Share Print Tags war crimes trials Adolf Eichmann Nazi Party perpetrators Nazi hunting key dates Language English This content is available in the following languages Arabic (عربي) Spanish (Español) Close language menu March 19, 1906 Adolf Eichmann is born in Solingen, Germany. 1914 Eichmann and his family move to Linz, Austria. 1925 Eichmann works in the sales division of the Upper Austrian Electrical Construction Company. 1927-1933 Eichmann works as a traveling salesman for the Vacuum Oil Company in Upper Austria. 1932 Eichmann enters the Austrian National Socialist (Nazi) Party and the SS at the suggestion of an acquaintance, Ernst Kaltenbrunner . Map Austria, 1933 (Map) Credits: US Holocaust Memorial Museum January, 30, 1933 Adolf Hitler , Führer of the Nazi Party, is appointed Chancellor of Germany. January 1933-August 1934 The Nazis begin consolidating absolute power in the German state, culminating in Hitler proclaiming himself Führer of the German nation. August 1933 After the Austrian government suppresses the Austrian Nazi Party in June 1933, Eichmann leaves Austria for Germany, where he joins the “Austrian Legion” and engages in military training. 1934 Eichmann joins the Security Service Main Office ( Sicherheitsdienst (SD) Hauptamt ) with the rank of SS- Scharführer (Sergeant). 1937 After he is assigned to a section of the SD dealing with Zionist activities, Eichmann negotiates with Zionist functionaries and makes an inspection tour of Palestine in order to assess the possibility of large-scale voluntary Jewish emigration to Palestine. March 11-13, 1938 Germany incorporates Austria in the Anschluss . August 20, 1938 The Central Office for Jewish Emigration ( Zentralstelle für jüdische Auswanderung ), an agency Eichmann had designed after the Anschluss, officially opens in Vienna . September 1, 1939 Germany invades Poland , starting World War II . Summer 1939 Eichmann becomes responsible for promoting the expulsion of Czech Jews from the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia and creates a Central Office for Jewish Emigration in Prague. September 1939 SS Chief and Chief of German Police Heinrich Himmler establishes the Reich Security Main Office (RSHA), the agency which Hitler will entrust with coordinating the annihilation of the European Jews. October 1939 Eichmann leads the Reich-wide Reich Central Office for Jewish Emigration in Berlin ( Reichzentrale für jüdische Auswanderung ). In his first effort at deportation, Eichmann arranged the deportation of thousands of Jews from Vienna and from districts in Bohemia to Nisko in the so-called Lublin Reservation, before plans for further deportations are scuttled. Photo Adolf Eichmann (Photo) Adolf Eichmann , SS official in charge of deporting European Jewry. Germany, 1940. Credits: US Holocaust Memorial Museum 1940 Eichmann becomes director of Reich Security Main Office (RSHA) section IV D 4 “Emigration and Evacuation” and in October organizes the deportation of nearly 7,000 Jews from Baden and Saarpfalz to areas of unoccupied France . By December 1941 Hitler, Himmler, Reinhard Heydrich , and other top Nazi officials reach the decision to physically annihilate the Jews of Europe. March 1941 Eichmann becomes director of RSHA section IV B 4 (Jewish Affairs, or Judenreferat ). From this position, Eichmann plays a central role in the deportation of over 1.5 million Jews from all over Europe to killing centers and killing sites. June 22, 1941 Nazi Germany invades the Soviet Union . SS and police authorities, supported by the military and by local auxiliaries, begin to systematically shoot Soviet Jews. Autumn 1941 Eichmann is appointed SS- Obersturmbannführer (Lieutenant Colonel) and takes part in discussions in which Nazi leaders plan the annihilation of the European Jews. October 15, 1941-February 1942 Eichmann's Section IV B 4 coordinates the deportation of tens of thousands of Jews from the so-called Greater German Reich to ghettos and killing sites in the German-occupied Soviet Union. January 20, 1942 Reinhard Heydrich convenes the Wannsee Conference , presenting his plans to coordinate a European-wide “Final Solution of the Jewish Question” to key officials from Reich Ministries and the Nazi Party. Eichmann, who attends the conference and prepares Heydrich's briefing papers, will play a key role in the implementation of this “ Final Solution .” 1942-1943 Eichmann and his aides organize the deportation of Jews from the so-called Greater German Reich, Slovakia , the Netherlands , France , Belgium , and Croatia to killing centers in German-occupied Poland, primarily Auschwitz-Birkenau . 1943-1944 Eichmann and his aides organize the deportation of Jews from Greece , northern Italy , and Hungary , primarily to the killing center Auschwitz-Birkenau. March 19, 1944 Eichmann arrives in Budapest to personally direct the deportation of Hungarian Jewry. April 30, 1945 Hitler commits suicide. May 7, 1945 Nazi Germany signs a document of surrender. 1946 Eichmann escapes from US custody and flees to Argentina with the assistance of some Vatican officials. Photo Adolf Eichmann during his trial (Photo) During his trial, defendant Adolf Eichmann reads a chart outlining the administrative hierarchy of the German Third Reich . Jerusalem, Israel. June 27 1961. Credits: Israel Government Press Office 1960 Agents of the Israeli Security Service ( Mossad ) abduct Eichmann from Argentina and bring him to Israel to stand trial . December 15, 1961 Eichmann is found guilty of crimes against the Jewish people. May 31/June 1, 1962 Eichmann is hanged at midnight between May 31 and June 1, 1962. Author(s): United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, Washington, DC See Also Eichmann Trial Article The Search for Perpetrators Article Related Links Teaching Materials on the Holocaust Teaching Materials on the Roles of Individuals Glossary Terms Critical Thinking Questions What qualities and characteristics of leadership did Eichmann seem to have and to demonstrate? How did Eichmann defend his actions and choices at his trial? How do leaders of governments and organizations accused of mass atrocities rationalize their choices? Feedback Thank you for supporting our work We would like to thank Crown Family Philanthropies, Abe and Ida Cooper Foundation, the Claims Conference, and BMF for supporting the ongoing work to create content and resources for the Holocaust Encyclopedia. View the list of all donors . Glossary Full Glossary Close glossary 100 Raoul Wallenberg Place, SW Washington, DC 20024-2126 Main telephone: 202.488.0400 TTY: 202.488.0406 Get the Latest News E-mail Address Postal Code Plan Your Visit Current Exhibitions Calendar of Events Support the Museum Donate Learn Teach Collections Academic Research Remember Survivors and Victims Genocide Prevention Antisemitism and Holocaust Denial Outreach Holocaust Encyclopedia Collections Search Holocaust Survivors and Victims Resource Center History Unfolded Experiencing History Early Warning Project About the Museum Contact the Museum Terms of Use Privacy Accessibility Legal