Museum Announces Details for Lynn Anderson Exhibition - Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum We use cookies in the following ways: (1) for system administration, (2) to assess the performance of the website, (3) to personalize your experience, content and ads, (4) to provide social media features, and (5) to analyze our traffic. You consent to our cookies if you continue to use our website. Please consult instructions for your web browser to disable or block cookies, or to receive a warning before a cookie is stored on your computer or mobile device. Read our Privacy Policy . That's Fine Close GDPR alert Museum View Cart Open navigation Close navigation Type in your search keywords and press Enter to submit Search Collections Exhibitions About Donate Membership Venue Rental Account Cart Museum Tickets Hall of Fame Back Hall of Fame All Members Current Hall of Fame Class Election Process Induction: Medallion Ceremony Circle Guard Hall of Fame Class of 2026 Paul Overstreet The Stanley Brothers Tim McGraw Experiences Back Experiences Calendar Exhibitions Guided Tours Family Activities Public Programs CMA Theater Hatch Show Print Historic RCA Studio B Haley Gallery Calendar View the Musician Spotlight: Viktor Krauss event page. Musician Spotlight: Viktor Krauss 16 Aug 1:00 PM View the Songwriter Session: David Nail event page. Songwriter Session: David Nail 22 Aug 12:00 PM View the Musician Spotlight: Luis Espaillat event page. Musician Spotlight: Luis Espaillat 23 Aug 1:00 PM Current Exhibitions Learn more about Kenny Chesney: Living in Fast Forward. Kenny Chesney: Living in Fast Forward Learn more about Dolly Parton: Journey of a Seeker. Dolly Parton: Journey of a Seeker Learn more about Clint Black: The Hard Way on Purpose. Clint Black: The Hard Way on Purpose Learn more about American Currents: State of the Music. American Currents: State of the Music Go to previous slide Go to next slide Go to slide 1 Go to slide 2 Go to slide 3 Go to slide 4 Visit Back Plan Your Visit Get Tickets Guided Tours Calendar Directions, Parking, and Hotels Group Tours Museum Policies and FAQ Local Admission Field Trips Venue Rental Accessibility Contact Us Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum 222 Rep. John Lewis Way S Nashville, TN 37203 (615) 416-2001 Hours Open Now Open Daily 9 AM - 5 PM CT Museum Map Learn Back Taylor Swift Education Center Family Activities at the Museum Fun at Home Schools and Teachers School and Teacher Programs Plan a Field Trip Homeschool Programs For Students Teacher Resource Portal Community Groups Community Partners Libraries Scouts Songwriting Programs Words & Music for Schools Words & Music: Journey of a Song Songwriting Tune-Up Songwriting Camp Listen to Songs Taylor Swift Education Center Support Back Support Museum Membership Volunteer Internships Teen Team Corporate Sponsors Our Donors Donate Become a Member Every dollar donated to the Museum, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit , supports its educational mission: to collect , preserve , and interpret the evolving history and traditions of country music. Watch & Listen Back Explore History Online Exhibits Videos Exhibit Playlists Podcasts Shop Back Shop The Museum Store Hatch Show Print Haley Gallery The Museum Store Catalog Gifts and Home Free shipping with $100 Purchase | Members Save 10% On Every Order, Join Today Museum Tickets Back to Press Releases Press Release Museum Announces Details For Lynn Anderson Exhibition September 13, 2017 Share Lynn Anderson: Keep Me in Mind Opens Sept. 15, 2017, and Continues Through June 24, 2018 NASHVILLE, Tenn. – Sept. 12, 2017 – The Country Music Hall of Fame ® and Museum will explore the life and career of Lynn Anderson, whose Grammy-winning recording of “Rose Garden” was a major crossover hit in 1970. Lynn Anderson: Keep Me in Mind opens Sept. 15, 2017, and runs through June 24, 2018. Anderson emerged as a reliable hit artist in the 1970s, when she scored several #1 country chart-toppers (“Keep Me in Mind” among them) and many Top Ten successes. The “Rose Garden” Grammy was for Best Female Country Vocal Performance. The Academy of Country Music named Anderson Top Female Vocalist in 1967 and 1970, and the Country Music Association awarded her Female Vocalist of the Year honors in 1971. Anderson was the first female country singer to sell out Madison Square Garden. She was an award-winning equestrian, with trophies and ribbons to prove her prowess at riding show horses and cutting horses. Anderson continued to perform and record until her death in 2015. Highlights in the exhibition Lynn Anderson: Keep Me in Mind : Chiffon gown with rhinestone- and bead-embellished bodice worn by Anderson on the cover of the 1970 album Rose Garden Grammy for Best Country Female Vocal Performance, for “Rose Garden” Hat by Shorty’s Caboy Hattery, worn by Anderson in performance at the 2009 Stagecoach Festival. Nathan Turk western shirt and pants with piping and floral embroidery worn by Anderson on a 1977 episode of ABC’s Starsky and Hutch. U. S. Marine Corps recruiting poster inspired by “Rose Garden” and autographed to Anderson by USMC Gunnery Sgt. Charles A. Taliano. Parade saddle and tack used by Anderson at equestrian events. One of the most visited museums in the United States, with an unduplicated collection of more than 2.5 million artifacts, the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum celebrates its fiftieth anniversary in 2017. Anderson’s installation joins revealing exhibitions devoted to Jason Aldean, Loretta Lynn and Shania Twain. An exhibition on Faith Hill and Tim McGraw will open in November. Follow the museum on Facebook , Twitter , Instagram and Snapchat , and follow Lynn Anderson on Facebook and Twitter . Join the conversation using #CMHOF50. For more information, visit countrymusichalloffame.org. ### The Country Music Hall of Fame ® and Museum collects, preserves, and interprets country music and its history for the education and entertainment of diverse audiences. In exhibits, publications, and educational programs, the museum explores the cultural importance and enduring beauty of the art form. The museum is operated by the Country Music Foundation, a not-for-profit 501 (c)(3) educational organization chartered by the state of Tennessee in 1964. The museum is accredited by the American Alliance of Museums, and in 2015 and 2016 welcomed over one million patrons, placing it among the most visited museums in the U.S. The Country Music Foundation operates Historic RCA Studio BTM, Hatch Show Print ® poster shop, CMF Records, the Frist Library and Archive, and CMF Press. Museum programs are supported by Metropolitan Nashville Arts Commission, Tennessee Arts Commission, and the National Endowment for the Arts. More information about the Country Music Hall of Fame ® and Museum is available at countrymusichalloffame.org or by calling (615) 416-2001. You are now leaving Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum website You are now leaving our website and onto another web property, which may include a different set of terms or conditions. We will open the website in a new tab for your convenience! Continue Nevermind COUNTRY MUSIC HALL OF FAME AND MUSEUM Visit Country Music Hall of Fame 222 Rep. John Lewis Way S Nashville, TN 37203 Call Country Music Hall of Fame (615) 416-2001 About Museum Policies and FAQ Accessibility Press and Media Venue Rental Careers & Internships Contact Us Visit Our Online shop Newsletter Sign Up Follow Us Visit our Facebook page. Visit our Twitter page. Visit our Instagram page. Visit our YouTube page. Visit our TikTok page. ©2026 Country Music Hall of Fame® and Museum. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Terms of Use