Evading Justice | Holocaust Encyclopedia Skip to main content Menu Must Reads ▾ Introduction to the Holocaust German-Soviet Pact Warsaw Uprising World War I The Nazi Olympics: Berlin 1936 Treblinka Varian Fry Anne Frank Biography: Who was Anne Frank? Antisemitism: An Introduction Home Search Language English ▾ عربي (Arabic) 汉语 (Chinese) فارسی (Farsi) français (French) Deutsch (German) Ελληνικά (Greek) हिंदी (Hindi) Magyar (Hungarian) Indonesia (Indonesian) Italiano (Italian) 日本語 (Japanese) 한국어 (Korean) polski (Polish) Português - Brasil (Portuguese-Brazil) русский (Russian) Español (Spanish) Türkçe (Turkish) Українська (Ukrainian) اُردو (Urdu) Featured Content Tags Find topics of interest and explore encyclopedia content related to those topics Browse A-Z Find articles, photos, maps, films, and more listed alphabetically For Teachers Recommended resources and topics if you have limited time to teach about the Holocaust ID Cards Explore the ID Cards to learn more about personal experiences during the Holocaust Timeline of Events Explore a timeline of events that occurred before, during, and after the Holocaust. Audio Narrations Explore all content with human-read audio versions. Must Reads Introduction to the Holocaust German-Soviet Pact Warsaw Uprising World War I The Nazi Olympics: Berlin 1936 Treblinka Varian Fry Anne Frank Biography: Who was Anne Frank? Antisemitism: An Introduction About this site Close menu Search the Holocaust Encyclopedia Enter your search term here Content types All categories ▾ Animated Map Article Artifact Audio Discussion Question Document Film ID Card Map Media Essay Oral History Photo Series Song Timeline Timeline Event Clear Selections Language English عربي (Arabic) 汉语 (Chinese) فارسی (Farsi) français (French) Deutsch (German) Ελληνικά (Greek) हिंदी (Hindi) Magyar (Hungarian) Indonesia (Indonesian) Italiano (Italian) 日本語 (Japanese) 한국어 (Korean) polski (Polish) Português - Brasil (Portuguese-Brazil) русский (Russian) Español (Spanish) Türkçe (Turkish) Українська (Ukrainian) اُردو (Urdu) ▾ Search Trending keywords: Close search menu Your browser is out of date and may not support some of the features of this webpage. Please consider updating your browser or using another. More information about this image Evading Justice Following postwar trials of Nazis, the search continued for perpetrators of the Holocaust. Only a small percentage of these criminals have been brought to justice. Among them was Franz Stangl, who had been commandant of the Sobibor and Treblinka killing centers. Close Image Lightbox Skip complementary section (continue reading) Cite Share Print Tags war crimes trials postwar Simon Wiesenthal perpetrators Latin America Language English This content is available in the following languages Spanish (Español) Close language menu “It is not the murderer in Stangl that terrifies us—it is the human being.” —Elie Wiesel “If I had done nothing else in my life but get this evil man [Stangl], I would not have lived in vain.” —Simon Wiesenthal Following postwar trials of Nazis, the search continued for perpetrators of the Holocaust . Only a small percentage of these criminals have been brought to justice. The search for and prosecution of Holocaust criminals raises complex moral questions, as well as tangled problems of international law and jurisdiction. As they reach the end of their lives, the vast majority of Nazi offenders have escaped punishment. Franz Stangl was the commandant of the Sobibor and Treblinka killing centers , where over one million people were systematically murdered. In 1967, Stangl was arrested while leaving the automotive plant where he worked. An informant sold Stangl's new home address to noted Nazi hunter Simon Wiesenthal . Stangl had been living with his wife and three daughters in Brazil since 1951 under his own name. He was extradited to West Germany and, after a long trial, sentenced to life in prison for the murder of 400,000 people. Only six months after being sentenced, Franz Stangl died in prison of a heart attack. Photo Franz Stangl (Photo) Franz Stangl, commandant of the Treblinka killing center. Credits: The Jacob Rader Marcus Center of the American Jewish Archives Author(s): United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, Washington, DC Glossary Terms Critical Thinking Questions Investigate Stangl’s life and background. What choices did he make as he rose to prominence and authority? What pressures and motivations may have affected Stangl’s choices? Feedback Thank you for supporting our work We would like to thank Crown Family Philanthropies, Abe and Ida Cooper Foundation, the Claims Conference, and BMF for supporting the ongoing work to create content and resources for the Holocaust Encyclopedia. View the list of all donors . Glossary Full Glossary Close glossary 100 Raoul Wallenberg Place, SW Washington, DC 20024-2126 Main telephone: 202.488.0400 TTY: 202.488.0406 Get the Latest News E-mail Address Postal Code Plan Your Visit Current Exhibitions Calendar of Events Support the Museum Donate Learn Teach Collections Academic Research Remember Survivors and Victims Genocide Prevention Antisemitism and Holocaust Denial Outreach Holocaust Encyclopedia Collections Search Holocaust Survivors and Victims Resource Center History Unfolded Experiencing History Early Warning Project About the Museum Contact the Museum Terms of Use Privacy Accessibility Legal