Nat “King” Cole Grammy Awards and Nominations, Song & Bio Recording Academy Recording Academy MusiCares Latin Recording Academy Latin Grammy Cultural Foundation Grammy Museum Instagram Facebook TikTok X YouTube Recognize 68th Annual Grammy Awards Awards History Award Categories Awards Process Grammy 101 Rules & Guidelines Genres Advance Grammy U Grammy Museum Education Online Learning Protect Issues & Policy Take Action Support Get Help Learn More Donate Membership How To Join Member Login Chapters Governance Producers & Engineers Wing Songwriters & Composers Wing Grammy U DEI Member Login Subscribe Artist Nat “King” Cole Wins 1 Nominations 7 Category General Pop R&B 5th Annual Grammy Awards Record Of The Year - Nominee Ramblin' Rose (Single). Nat "King" Cole 4th Annual Grammy Awards Album Of The Year - Nominee The Nat "King" Cole Story (Album). Nat "King" Cole 3rd Annual Grammy Awards Male Pop Vocal Performance - Nominee Wild Is Love (Album). Nat "King" Cole 3rd Annual Grammy Awards Album Of The Year - Nominee Wild Is Love (Album). Nat "King" Cole 2nd Annual Grammy Awards Best Rhythm & Blues Recording - Nominee Midnight Flyer. Nat "King" Cole 2nd Annual Grammy Awards Best Contemporary Song - Winner Midnight Flyer. Nat "King" Cole 1st Annual Grammy Awards Best Rhythm & Blues Recording - Nominee Looking Back. Nat "King" Cole Previous Next About Nat “King” Cole "I'm an interpreter of stories. When I perform it's like sitting down at my piano and telling fairy stories." Born Nathaniel Adams Coles March 17, 1919, in Montgomery, Alabama. Died Feb. 15, 1965, in Santa Monica, California. While Nat "King" Cole started his own band, the King Cole Trio, in 1939, he found real chart success after going solo in 1950. "Mona Lisa" rose to No. 1 on the popular charts that same year, followed by 1951's classic, "Unforgettable," which reached No. 12. In total, Cole recorded 28 Top 40 hits. His first Billboard Hot 100 Top 10 song came for "Darling He Vous Aime Beaucoup" in 1955. Cole earned his highest charting Hot 100 songs with "A Blossom Fell" (1955, No. 2) and "Ramblin' Rose" (1962, No. 2). Cole earned his first GRAMMY win at the 2nd GRAMMY Awards for Best Performance By A "Top 40" Artist for "Midnight Flyer." He was awarded the Recording Academy Lifetime Achievement Award in 1990. He has four recordings in the GRAMMY Hall Of Fame , including "Mona Lisa" (1950), "The Christmas Song" (1946), "Nature Boy" (1948), and "Unforgettable" (1951). Did you know? Cole's daughter, Natalie Cole , released a duet version of "Unforgettable" 40 years after its 1951 release. She overdubbed her own vocals with her father's original vocals to orchestrate a touching tribute to her late father. Established in 2008 by his twin daughters Timolin and Casey Cole, Nat King Cole Generation Hope honors the legacy of their father and mother, Maria Cole. The 501(c)(3) organization dedicates their resources to build sustainable music programs for schools around the country. All Grammy Awards and Nominations: Nat “King” Cole Year Category Artists Title All Nominees 1963 Record Of The Year Nat "King" Cole Ramblin' Rose (Single) All Nominees 1962 Album Of The Year Nat "King" Cole The Nat "King" Cole Story (Album) All Nominees 1961 Male Pop Vocal Performance Nat "King" Cole Wild Is Love (Album) All Nominees 1961 Album Of The Year Nat "King" Cole Wild Is Love (Album) All Nominees 1960 Best Rhythm & Blues Recording Nat "King" Cole Midnight Flyer All Nominees 1960 Best Contemporary Song Nat "King" Cole Midnight Flyer All Nominees 1959 Best Rhythm & Blues Recording Nat "King" Cole Looking Back All Nominees The Grammys are more than just Awards Advancement Empowering music makers through their creative journeys Learn More Music Advocacy Defending creators’ rights while shaping a future of responsible innovation Get Involved Ready to Reach Out? We’re Ready to Listen. MusiCares helps music people find healing, hope, and stability in times of need. Get Help Now Sign Up For The Gramophone All the latest news and conversation about the craft, culture, business, and creators powering the music industry. Socials Instagram Facebook TikTok X YouTube By clicking Subscribe, you agree to the Recording Academy's Terms and Privacy Policy . First name Last name Email Sign up By clicking Subscribe, you agree to the Recording Academy's Terms and Privacy Policy . Artists Artists News Videos Award Ceremonies Award Categories Award Fields Filter Recording Academy About Press Room Careers DEI Dream Network Grammys Awards History Awards Process Award Categories News Videos Membership Who We Are How To Join Member Login Chapters Governance Producers & Engineers Wing Songwriters & Composers Wing Grammy U MusiCares About Get Help Donate News Programs & Services Person Of The Year Advocacy Home Issues & Policy Take Action Latin Grammys How To Join Member Login Awards News Videos Press Cultural Foundation Grammy Museum Museum Tickets Exhibits Education Support Programs Donate Socials Instagram Facebook TikTok X YouTube Legal Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Copyright Notice © 2026 Grammy. All rights reserved. Some of the content on this site expresses viewpoints and opinions that are not those of the Recording Academy and its Affiliates. Responsibility for the accuracy of information provided in stories not written by or specifically prepared for the Academy and its Affiliates lies with the story's original source or writer. Content on this site does not reflect an endorsement or recommendation of any artist or music by the Recording Academy and its Affiliates. Your Privacy Choices Post Post Filter Sign Up For The Gramophone All the latest news and conversation about the craft, culture, business, and creators powering the music industry. Socials Instagram Facebook TikTok X YouTube By clicking Subscribe, you agree to the Recording Academy's Terms and Privacy Policy . First name Last name Email Sign up By clicking Subscribe, you agree to the Recording Academy's Terms and Privacy Policy .