Former Astronaut Richard F. Gordon, Jr. - NASA Explore Search News & Events News & Events News Releases Recently Published Video Series on NASA+ Podcasts & Audio Blogs Newsletters Social Media Media Resources Events Upcoming Launches & Landings Virtual Guest Program Multimedia Multimedia NASA+ Images NASA Live NASA Apps Podcasts Image of the Day e-Books 3D Resources Interactives STEM Multimedia NASA Brand & Usage Guidelines NASA+ Search Suggested Searches Climate Change Artemis Expedition 64 Mars perseverance SpaceX Crew-2 International Space Station View All Topics A-Z Home Missions Humans in Space Earth The Solar System The Universe Science Aeronautics Technology Learning Resources About NASA Español News & Events Multimedia NASA+ Featured 5 min read NASA Announces MAX POWER: America’s Newest Aerospace Expo, Airshow article 2 days ago 4 min read Lion Nebula Roars to Life With NASA’s Webb article 6 days ago 4 min read What’s Up: August 2026 Skywatching Tips from NASA article 2 weeks ago Back Missions Search All NASA Missions A to Z List of Missions Upcoming Launches and Landings Spaceships and Rockets Communicating with Missions Artemis James Webb Space Telescope Hubble Space Telescope International Space Station OSIRIS-Rex Humans in Space Why Go to Space Astronauts Commercial Space Destinations Spaceships and Rockets Living in Space Earth Explore Earth Science Climate Change Earth, Our Planet Earth Science in Action Earth Multimedia Earth Data Earth Science Researchers The Solar System The Sun Mercury Venus Earth The Moon Mars Jupiter Saturn Uranus Neptune Pluto & Dwarf Planets Asteroids, Comets & Meteors The Kuiper Belt The Oort Cloud Skywatching The Universe Exoplanets The Search for Life in the Universe Stars Galaxies Black Holes The Big Bang Dark Energy Dark Matter Science Earth Science Planetary Science Astrophysics & Space Science The Sun & Heliophysics Biological & Physical Sciences Lunar Science Citizen Science Astromaterials Aeronautics Research Human Space Travel Research Aeronautics Science in the Air NASA Aircraft Flight Research Innovation Supersonic Flight Air Traffic Solutions Green Aviation Tech Drones & You Technology Technology Transfer & Spinoffs Space Travel Living in Space Lunar Surface Technology Manufacturing and Materials Robotics Science Instruments Computing Learning Resources For Kids and Students For Educators For Colleges and Universities For Professionals Science for Everyone Requests for Exhibits, Artifacts, Speakers & Flyovers STEM Engagement at NASA About NASA NASA's Impacts Centers and Facilities Directorates Organizations People of NASA Careers Internships Our History Doing Business with NASA Get Involved Contact NASA en Español Ciencia Aeronáutica Ciencias Terrestres Sistema Solar Universo News & Events News Releases Recently Published Video Series on NASA+ Podcasts & Audio Blogs Newsletters Social Media Media Resources Events Upcoming Launches & Landings Virtual Guest Program Multimedia NASA+ Images NASA Live NASA Apps Podcasts Image of the Day e-Books 3D Resources Interactives STEM Multimedia NASA Brand & Usage Guidelines Featured 4 min read NASA Telescopes Create Colorful ‘Craft’ From Nearby Nebula article 5 days ago 1 min read NASA Swift Boost Spacecraft Prepares to Continue Mission article 5 days ago 2 min read NASA’s IMAP Mission Releases New Data From 7 Science Instruments article 1 week ago Highlights 3 min read NASA Will Attempt to Observe Rocket Part’s Lunar Impact article 2 weeks ago 4 min read NASA Delivers Navigation System for Commercial Lunar Relay article 2 weeks ago 5 min read Establishing Crew Exposure Limits of Martian Dust article 4 weeks ago Highlights 3 min read A Sunflower’s View of Totality article 3 days ago 3 min read Cascade Volcanoes Shrouded in Smoke article 4 days ago 3 min read Stops Along the Path of Totality article 5 days ago Highlights 5 min read NASA’s COFFIES Uses AI to Predict Storm-Causing Active Regions on Sun article 2 days ago 5 min read NASA Completes Astronaut-Deployed Science Instrument for Lunar Surface article 5 days ago 2 min read Community College Instructors Bring Astronomy Textbook Into 21st Century article 6 days ago Featured 4 min read NASA Telescopes Create Colorful ‘Craft’ From Nearby Nebula article 5 days ago 4 min read Lion Nebula Roars to Life With NASA’s Webb article 6 days ago 8 min read Helio and You: Studying Eclipses Near and Far article 1 week ago Highlights 2 min read Volunteer Develops Machine-Learning Tool to Identify Rare Clouds article 2 days ago 5 min read NASA’s COFFIES Uses AI to Predict Storm-Causing Active Regions on Sun article 2 days ago 3 min read Quality Assessment Report Evaluates Polar Geospatial Center EarthDEM Elevation Products article 4 days ago Highlights 2 min read Michael T. Lippert article 3 weeks ago 4 min read NASA, GE Aerospace Work Enables Hybrid-Electric Flight Demonstration article 4 weeks ago 3 min read NASA Pushes New Wing Design to Find Structural Limits article 4 weeks ago Highlights 3 min read NASA Data Helps Commercial Space Plan Living Off Our Moon article 4 days ago 5 min read NASA Completes Astronaut-Deployed Science Instrument for Lunar Surface article 5 days ago 1 min read Update to A.1 Earth Science Research Overview: Earth Science proposals that include NASA high-end computing resources must include costs article 2 weeks ago Featured 4 min read Launch Into a New School Year With NASA article 6 days ago Featured 5 min read NASA Announces MAX POWER: America’s Newest Aerospace Expo, Airshow article 2 days ago 3 min read NASA Competition Invites Students to Help Imagine a Future Enabled by Lunar Technologies article 2 days ago 5 min read NASA Shares Station Research Today Supporting Moon, Mars Tomorrow article 5 days ago Highlights 11 min read La NASA anuncia la cobertura de la misión lunar Artemis II article 5 months ago 15 min read Agenda diaria de la misión a la Luna de Artemis II de la NASA article 5 months ago 6 min read La NASA refuerza Artemis: añade una misión y perfecciona su arquitectura general article 6 months ago Richard F. Gordon, Jr. After graduation from the University of Washington in 1951, Richard F. “Dick” Gordon joined the U.S. Navy to train as a fighter pilot. By 1957, he was flying the F-4 Phantom II as project pilot and then later a flight instructor for the jet at the Navy Test Pilot School in Patuxent River, Maryland. Gordon competed in the Bendix Trophy Race from Los Angeles to New York in 1961, winning the prize in the F-4 Phantom and establishing a new speed record and transcontinental speed record during the flight. Chosen for the third astronaut class in 1963, Gordon moved to Houston to begin training for the Gemini and Apollo programs. Quick Facts During Navy preflight school in 1951, Dick Gordon and his fellow cadets were marched to an auditorium to see a presentation about space and orbiting objects. As he was listening to the presenter, Gordon thought “he was a little bit off his rocker.” The man presenting those new ideas was Wernher von Braun. Gemini XI pilot Dick Gordon and commander Pete Conrad performed a docking maneuver with the Agena target vehicle similar to what the Apollo Command Module and Lunar Module would later be required to do during the Apollo missions. Gordon performed two EVAs during Gemini XI. The first spacewalk entailed fastening a 100-foot tether to the Gemini’s docking bar for a passive stabilization experiment. The second time the hatch was opened, Gordon stood in the opening with only his head and shoulders outside of the spacecraft and took photographs of the Earth. Gordon served as the command module pilot on Apollo 12, and remained in lunar orbit aboard the command module, Yankee Clipper, taking photographs of possible future Apollo landing sites while his crewmates, Pete Conrad and Al Bean walked on the surface of the Moon. The Gemini XI prime crew, astronauts Charles Conrad Jr. (right) and Richard F. Gordon Jr. pose in front of the recovery helicopter which brought them to the USS Guam. (15 Sept. 1966) NASA The prime crew of the Apollo 12 lunar landing mission is photographed during spacecraft checkout activity at North American Rockwell Space Division at Downey, California. Left to right, are astronauts Charles Conrad Jr., commander; Richard F. Gordon Jr., command module pilot; and Alan L. Bean, lunar module pilot. (1969) NASA The Apollo 12 astronauts, left to right, Charles Conrad Jr., Richard F. Gordon, and Alan L. Bean, pose in front of a NASA T-38 training aircraft at Patrick Air Force Base. Each astronaut piloted his own T-38, performing aerobatics in preparation for their mission, the second manned lunar landing. NASA Richard F. Gordon, Jr. climbing into a training simulator at the Langley Research Center in Virginia. Gordon orbited the Moon in the Apollo 12 Command Module in 1969 while his crewmates, Al Bean and Pete Conrad walked on lunar surface. NASA Biography Richard F. Gordon, Jr. Chosen as a member of the third astronaut group, Dick Gordon flew on the Gemini XI mission, performing two spacewalks, and again as the command module pilot on Apollo 12. Gordon was a Navy test pilot and flight instructor when the call for the second class of NASA astronauts was announced. Along with his squadron mate, Pete Conrad, he applied, but was not chosen as one of the nine in that class, but Conrad was selected. Gordon was “bitterly disappointed about that and almost resigned from the Navy at that time and went into something else.” But he “calmed down” and was soon selected for the third class in October, 1963. Learn More about Richard F. Gordon, Jr. Astronaut Richard F. Gordon, Jr., Prime Crew Command Module Pilot of the Apollo 12 Lunar Landing Mission, in his spacesuit minus the helmet. Gordon is standing outside beside a mockup of the Lunar Lander.(September 1969) NASA All Crewed Missions Gemini XI Gemini XI, flown by Charles “Pete” Conrad Jr. and Richard F. Gordon Jr., performed a spacecraft rendezvous in the first orbit of a spaceflight for the first time, and reached… Learn More About Gemini XI All Crewed Missions Apollo 12 The primary mission objectives of the second crewed lunar landing included an extensive series of lunar exploration tasks by the lunar module, or LM, crew, as well as the deployment… Learn More About Apollo 12 Richard F. Gordon Oral History Interviews 10/17/97 6/16/99 More about Dick Gordon More Former Astronauts Article 9 Min Read Demanding Gemini XI Mission Flies on Top of the World News Release 2 Min Read NASA Pays Tribute to Early Space Pioneer Richard Gordon Article 11 Min Read Apollo 12: The Pinpoint Mission Article 3 Min Read Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter Looks at Apollo 12, Surveyor 3 Landing Sites Former Astronaut Richard F. Gordon, Jr. 25 Images Go To Gallery Go To Gallery Keep Exploring Discover More Topics From NASA Project Gemini The Apollo Program Humans In Space NASA Oral Histories National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA explores the unknown in air and space, innovates for the benefit of humanity, and inspires the world through discovery. About NASA's Mission Join Us Home News & Events Multimedia NASA+ Missions Humans in Space Earth The Solar System The Universe Science Aeronautics Technology Learning Resources About NASA NASA en Español (opens in new tab) Follow NASA More NASA Social Accounts NASA Newsletters Sitemap For Media Privacy Policy FOIA No FEAR Act Office of the IG (opens in new tab) Budget & Annual Reports Agency Financial Reports Contact NASA Accessibility Page Last Updated: Nov 04, 2024 Page Editor: Sandra L. Johnson Responsible NASA Official: Abigail Bowman Was this page helpful? Δ Was this page helpful? Yes No ×