Ricard | Pernod Ricard Skip to main content Close Activate contrast theme Deactivate contrast theme Our Group Our Group Back Our Group Highlights Who we are A global leader in wine and spirits, we are 18,500 employees worldwide, respectful and responsible hosts, committed to nurturing every terroir. Who we are Our Values Our Values Our leadership team Meet the team responsible for the Group’s strategic, financial, and operational direction. Our leadership team In this section Our Vision Our Governance Our Role in Society Our History Art and Culture Our Global Presence Our Global Presence Back Our Global Presence Highlights Our global family From our HQ in central Paris to the world, we are present in 73 countries with our own salesforce and distribute our brands to 160 countries. Our global family Where we operate Our global footprint and geographical diversity are unequaled. Where we operate In this section How we operate The importance of Terroir Our Brand Homes Our Brands Our Brands Back Our Brands Highlights Our premium portfolio We have one of the most comprehensive portfolios of the industry spanning 240 premium brands. Our premium portfolio Experience our brands Each year our brand homes across the world welcome 1.5 million guests. Experience our brands Brand portfolio news The latest brand news, acquisitions, innovations and campaigns. Brand portfolio news In this section House of Brands Brand Homes Our Commitments Our Commitments Back Our Commitments Highlights Sustainability and Responsibility Our 2030 Sustainability and Responsibility roadmap ‘Good Times from a Good Place’ is based on 4 pillars with strong commitments, from grain to glass. Sustainability and Responsibility ESG Ratings and Reporting We set high performance targets for ourselves and believe in reporting what we do in a clear and transparent way. ESG Ratings and Reporting Latest News Stay up to date with our Sustainability and Responsibility progress. Latest News Case Studies Case Studies In this section Our Roadmap Nurturing Terroir Valuing People Circular Making Responsible Hosting ESG Ratings & Reporting Ethics & Compliance Media Media Back Media Highlights Latest News The latest news and documentation from the Pernod Ricard Group and our premium brands. Latest News Press releases Pernod Ricard Group official press releases. Press releases Publications and reports New and archived publications, presentations, and reports. Publications and reports In this section Latest News Corporate News Key Brands News Investors Investors Back Investors Highlights Investors hub Investor and shareholder relations including latest financial figures and presentations. Investors hub Latest presentations Financial presentations and regulatory documents. Latest presentations Upcoming events Global events for investors and shareholders. Upcoming events In this section Share & Debt Information Presentations & Regulatory Information Investor Calendar Analysts and Consensus Individual Shareholders Club Premium 69.16€ +1.2% 08-14 Careers Careers Back Careers Highlights Create convivialité with us We are 19,480 employees worldwide. At Pernod Ricard we foster empowering workplaces and encourage our people to grow. Create convivialité with us Culture Thriving at Pernod Ricard starts with ensuring you feel truly heard, valued and safe. Culture Latest opportunities See job offers from around the world and apply online. Latest opportunities Tech with a Twist Tech with a Twist In this section Culture Tech with a Twist Job Opportunities Menu English en English Français Menu Home Our Brands Ricard Ricard France Since 1932, Ricard has established itself as one of the favorite aperitifs for French people (source: Prime 2021). The secret recipe has remained unchanged since its creation by Paul Ricard in 1932. It's characterized by its quality and variety of natural ingredients, including star anise, fennel anise, licorice, and aromatic plants from Provence. Visit the Ricard website Follow Ricard on: Join us on social media Featured Ricard products Ricard Original There are a number of natural ingredients in Ricard Original, such as aniseed, which comes mainly from star anise, licorice, and aromatic plants. To achieve the perfect taste, use 2cl of Ricard and 5 to 7 volumes of water. Nutritional information Click to buy Nutritional Information Ricard Original, 45% ABV Ingredients: water, alcohol, sugar, natural extracts of licorice, anise 2 per thousand, caramelized sugar, a mixture of aromatic plants. ON THE BASIS OF A DOSE OF CONSUMPTION OR PORTION OF 2 CL (+14 CL WATER = 1 GLASS OF 160 ML) BASED ON 100 ML OF PURE PRODUCT Energy (kJ/kcal) 211/50 1 053/252 Alcohol (g) 7.1 35.5 Fat (g) 0 0 of which Saturates (g) 0 0 Carbohydrates (g) 0.2 1 of which Sugars (g) 0.2 1 Protein (g) 0 0 Salt (g) 0 0 Ricard Organic Lemon In 2020, Ricard reinvented itself to stay abreast with trends, and created a new range combining the rounded character of green anise with the fruity aromas of lemon and almond. These innovative recipes are certified organic and meet the expectations of consumers who are always looking for more authenticity and freshness. To achieve the perfect taste, use 2cl of Ricard and 7 to 10 volumes of water. Nutritional information Click to buy Nutritional Information Ricard Fruité Bio citron, 45% ABV Ingredients: water, alcohol, sugar, natural extracts of licorice, anise 2 per thousand, caramelized sugar, a mixture of aromatic plants. ON THE BASIS OF A DOSE OF CONSUMPTION OR PORTION OF 2 CL (+14 CL WATER = 1 GLASS OF 160 ML) BASED ON 100 ML OF PURE PRODUCT Energy (kJ/kcal) 227/53 1 109/265 Alcohol (g) 7.1 35.5 Fat (g) 0 0 of which Saturates (g) 0 0 Carbohydrates (g) 0.8 4.2 of which Sugars (g) 0.8 4.2 Protein (g) 0 0 Salt (g) 0 0 Ricard Fresh Plants Made with aniseed exclusively from fresh plants, this Pastis de Marseille is fresh and subtle. The plants are carefully cultivated by local producers in Haute-Provence (South of France). To achieve the perfect taste, use 2cl of Ricard and 7 to 10 volumes of water. Nutritional information Click to buy Nutritional Information Ricard plantes fraîches, 45% ABV Ingredients: water, alcohol, sugar, natural licorice extract, anise essence from Haute Provence plants, essential oils, aromatic plant extract. ON THE BASIS OF A DOSE OF CONSUMPTION OR PORTION OF 2 CL (+14 CL WATER = 1 GLASS OF 160 ML) BASED ON 100 ML OF PURE PRODUCT Energy (kJ/kcal) 220/53 1 102/264 Alcohol (g) 7.1 35.5 Fat (g) 0 0 of which Saturates (g) 0 0 Carbohydrates (g) 0.8 4 of which Sugars (g) 0.8 4 Protein (g) 0 0 Salt (g) 0 0 Pernod Ricard at glance Our corporate governance Our actions Join us! Publications All publications Annual reports Code of Business Conduct Direct access Digital labels Privacy Policies List Join us on social media Privacy policy Terms and conditions Cookies notice Cookies Management © Pernod Ricard 2026. All rights reserved. Please enjoy our brands responsibly. Do not share this website with anyone under legal drinking age. Go to top of the page