At Pernod Ricard, 'the group's interests come first' Date: Loading date... Time: Loading time... Menu Menu Go Back to the HomePage Le Monde Go Back to the HomePage Le Monde FR EN Your account Your account Subscribe Your account Your account Subscribe Sign in Sign in Sign in Go Back to the HomePage Le Monde Go Back to the HomePage Le Monde Menu Menu Search Search Previous article Summer Reads Bernard Arnault's Empire 21st-Century Cheaters America 250 A Russian in Paris Next article Update payment details Update Payment details Your account Subscription paused Subscription suspended Partager votre abonnement Other offers Your selection Your newsletters Your notifications Our apps The print The print Subscriber Other offers Subscribers events Subscriber Other offers Le Monde Games Subscriber Other offers Le Monde in French Le Monde in French Subscriber Other offers Subscribe Help Log out Close the main menu Go Back to the HomePage Le Monde Go Back to the HomePage Le Monde FR EN Search an article Summer Reads Climate change Middle East War in Ukraine United States Donald Trump Iran Fires FIFA 2027 French presidential election Jeffrey Epstein See more of current news World All articles Europe Americas United States Africa Middle East Asia and Pacific Geopolitics Diplomacy Letters from Middle East War in Ukraine United States Donald Trump Iran Jeffrey Epstein Europe All articles European Union France United Kingdom Russia Germany Italy France All articles French Politics Emmanuel Macron French Education French Justice Paris 2027 French presidential election Environment All articles Climate Energy Biodiversity Natural disasters Oceans Water Pollution Pesticides PFAS Climate change Fires Economy All articles World economy French economy Business Agriculture Tourism Transport Management Employment M Magazine All articles Lifestyle Food Fashion Travel Culture All articles Art Exhibitions Cinema TV shows Music Performing Arts Books Photography Architecture French Delights Global issues All articles Abortion Antisemitism Child abuse Counterterrorism Disabilities Drug use and trafficking Human Rights Immigration LGBTQ+ rights Organized Crime Pornography Religion Sexual violence Women's Rights Pixels All articles Artificial Intelligence Crypto Disinformation Social Media Sports All articles Football Tennis Cycling Rugby Basketball FIFA Science Health Intimacy Les Décodeurs Our Times Obituaries Religion Opinion All articles Editorials Columns Op-Eds Analysis Le Monde’s app Other formats Video investigations Newsletters Cookie preferences Close the services menu The holder of your subscription has paused their plan for one month, until #suspension_date#. You no longer have access to their benefits. Your subscription has been paused for one month, until #suspension_date#. If you’d like to resume it earlier, please contact our customer service team . Pascal Parrot / Sygma via Getty Images Summer Reads Summer Reads Summer Reads French Economy French Economy French Economy At Pernod Ricard, 'the group's interests come first' By Raphaëlle Bacqué and Vanessa Schneider Published on August 22, 2024, at 6:01 pm (Paris) 15 min read Lire en français Subscribers only Make us preferred on Google share Share on Messenger Share on Facebook Share by email Share on Linkedin Copy link Investigation 'Successions season III' (5/6). The pastis company created by Paul Ricard in 1932, which became the Pernod Ricard group in 1975, the world's number 2 in wines and spirits, is still run by a Ricard family member. He is determined, whatever the cost, not to repeat the mishaps of the first handover between Paul and his son Bernard in 1968. Find all episodes of the "Successions" series here. He always keeps the letter with him, carefully preserved on his computer. Alexandre Ricard read it aloud, but he could just as easily have recited it with his eyes closed, as he knows it by heart. It's dated April 2015, and the tall fellow with an impenetrable gaze remembered that day, of course: He'd just been appointed CEO of the Pernod Ricard Group, a few months before celebrating his 43 rd birthday, making him the youngest chief executive in the CAC 40. "My dearest son, it might seem absurd to declare that it is you who have made me a father, much more than I have made you a son." So begins the letter. A dozen carefully worded sentences, which the Ricard enunciated in a slightly trembling voice that betrayed emotion despite his marble face. "To quote Jules Renard [1864-1910]: 'A father has two lives: his own and that of his son.' I thank you for making me experience this, this pride in being my son's father." When you delve into the Ricard family tale, you hear a thousand anecdotes about its emblematic characters. About "Alex," as everyone calls him, it is often said that, from his early teens, he seemed to have "self-designated" himself as the future successor. "He put himself forward," said his cousin Myrna Giron-Ricard, who can remember him at the age of 12, "putting on a suit and tie" to visit his grandfather, Paul Ricard, the company's founder. But, curiously, the cousins never mention the role his father, Bernard Ricard, ousted after just three years at the helm, might have played in this precocious vocation. Makeshift home laboratory You have 92.46% of this article left to read. The rest is for subscribers only. Subscribe now to read the full story. Your credit card has expired. Update your payment information to keep your subscription running. Update Payment details Subscribe now to read the full story. Your payment failed. Update your payment information to keep your subscription running Update Payment details Subscribe now to read the full story. Already a subscriber ? Sign in Subscribe to continue reading. Get unlimited access to Le Monde in English €2.49/month, cancel anytime Subscribe to continue reading. Get unlimited access to Le Monde in English €2.49/month, cancel anytime Subscribe now Card Apple Pay Google Pay PayPal Sections World French politics France Les Décodeurs Sports Environment Science Campus Le Monde Africa Pixels Health Obituaries Archives About Us Le Monde Syndication Le Monde for hotels French Focus Rugby World Cup 2023 Tour de France 2023 Paris Olympics 2024 Emmanuel Macron Opinion Editorials Columns Analysis Subscription Sign up Sign In Le Monde in English Sign up to receive our daily selection of "Le Monde" articles translated into English. Sign up Informations légales le Monde Mentions légales Conditions générales Charte du Groupe Politique de confidentialité Aide (FAQ) Le Monde Legal informations Legal Information Group Policy Privacy Policy Cookie Preferences Terms & Conditions FAQ Follow Le Monde Facebook Youtube Instagram TikTok Reddit RSS feed