Our Group | Pernod Ricard Skip to main content Close Activate contrast theme Deactivate contrast theme Our Group Our Group Back Our Group Highlights Who we are A global leader in wine and spirits, we are 18,500 employees worldwide, respectful and responsible hosts, committed to nurturing every terroir. Who we are Our Values Our Values Our leadership team Meet the team responsible for the Group’s strategic, financial, and operational direction. Our leadership team In this section Our Vision Our Governance Our Role in Society Our History Art and Culture Our Global Presence Our Global Presence Back Our Global Presence Highlights Our global family From our HQ in central Paris to the world, we are present in 73 countries with our own salesforce and distribute our brands to 160 countries. Our global family Where we operate Our global footprint and geographical diversity are unequaled. Where we operate In this section How we operate The importance of Terroir Our Brand Homes Our Brands Our Brands Back Our Brands Highlights Our premium portfolio We have one of the most comprehensive portfolios of the industry spanning 240 premium brands. Our premium portfolio Experience our brands Each year our brand homes across the world welcome 1.5 million guests. Experience our brands Brand portfolio news The latest brand news, acquisitions, innovations and campaigns. Brand portfolio news In this section House of Brands Brand Homes Our Commitments Our Commitments Back Our Commitments Highlights Sustainability and Responsibility Our 2030 Sustainability and Responsibility roadmap ‘Good Times from a Good Place’ is based on 4 pillars with strong commitments, from grain to glass. Sustainability and Responsibility ESG Ratings and Reporting We set high performance targets for ourselves and believe in reporting what we do in a clear and transparent way. ESG Ratings and Reporting Latest News Stay up to date with our Sustainability and Responsibility progress. Latest News Case Studies Case Studies In this section Our Roadmap Nurturing Terroir Valuing People Circular Making Responsible Hosting ESG Ratings & Reporting Ethics & Compliance Media Media Back Media Highlights Latest News The latest news and documentation from the Pernod Ricard Group and our premium brands. Latest News Press releases Pernod Ricard Group official press releases. Press releases Publications and reports New and archived publications, presentations, and reports. Publications and reports In this section Latest News Corporate News Key Brands News Investors Investors Back Investors Highlights Investors hub Investor and shareholder relations including latest financial figures and presentations. Investors hub Latest presentations Financial presentations and regulatory documents. Latest presentations Upcoming events Global events for investors and shareholders. Upcoming events In this section Share & Debt Information Presentations & Regulatory Information Investor Calendar Analysts and Consensus Individual Shareholders Club Premium 69.16€ +1.2% 08-14 Careers Careers Back Careers Highlights Create convivialité with us We are 19,480 employees worldwide. At Pernod Ricard we foster empowering workplaces and encourage our people to grow. Create convivialité with us Culture Thriving at Pernod Ricard starts with ensuring you feel truly heard, valued and safe. Culture Latest opportunities See job offers from around the world and apply online. Latest opportunities Tech with a Twist Tech with a Twist In this section Culture Tech with a Twist Job Opportunities Menu English en English Français Menu Home Our Group Who we are Pernod Ricard has the most comprehensive portfolio in the industry, with over 200 spirits and champagnes brands distributed in 160 countries. The Group puts its expertise at the service of authentic moments of sharing, while acting ethically and responsibly to have a positive impact on society and on the planet. Our purpose Our products embody the excellence of our know-how and our passion for brand building. Our champagnes and spirits tell genuine stories, bringing unique sensory experiences to life during unforgettable moments. We act for the responsible consumption of our brands, standing firm in the belief that there is no conviviality in excess. Our Leadership Team • Our Board of Directors, its Committees, and the Executive Committee ensure that we lead our organisation in an ethical and transparent manner and in the best interests of our stakeholders. Meet our Leaders Our History In 1975 Paul Ricard and Jean Hémard founded Pernod Ricard by merging their two anise-based spirits companies. The two partners set out with shared enthusiasm, creative innovation and an ambitious goal of global leadership. Learn more about our history Our Role in Society As an industry leader we are mindful of our influence and so embedded in our business is respect and responsibility for each other, our communities and our planet because we believe there is no conviviality in excess, especially when it comes to drinking. Find out more Our Artistic Legacy Our founder Paul Ricard’s love of creativity and art drove his philanthropy, and we carry on that mission today by supporting artists and artistic creation. Explore our initiatives Related pages Our Global Presence Investors Pernod Ricard at glance Our corporate governance Our actions Join us! Publications All publications Annual reports Code of Business Conduct Direct access Digital labels Privacy Policies List Join us on social media Privacy policy Terms and conditions Cookies notice Cookies Management © Pernod Ricard 2026. All rights reserved. Please enjoy our brands responsibly. Do not share this website with anyone under legal drinking age. Go to top of the page