Todd Timeline – Todd Bridges Skip to content WELCOME TO THE OFFICIAL TODD BRIDGE'S WEBSITE! ABOUT MERCH ARCADE LIVESTREAM PODCAST CONTACT Log in Twitter Instagram YouTube ABOUT MERCH ARCADE LIVESTREAM PODCAST CONTACT Search Log in Cart Item added to your cart Check out Continue shopping The Todd Bridges Time Machine Todd Bridges is a groundbreaking, veteran television personality, actor and comedian with nearly five decades of experience in the entertainment industry. Todd has lived and worked amongst some of the most famous and influential individuals in the world. Best known for his role as Willis Jackson on the hit TV show Diff'rent Strokes, Todd is widely respected as a talented and versatile performer and is a sought-after host and commentator. ( Read Todd's Bio ) A tech guru, Todd grew up alongside technology. Step into our time machine as we journey though six decades of Todd Bridges... 1965 1965 Hello World! May 27, 1965 - Todd Bridges was born to Betty A. Bridges in San Francisco, CA. Todd was Betty's third child following Jimmy and Verda Bridges . "Mini" Computers With a smart phone in your pocket, it's hard to think of this big machine as a "mini" computer, but in 1965 early electrical engineers were plugging away in a steady march to revolutionize the world. The PDP-8 12-bit minicomputer was introduced by Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC). It's the first commercially successful minicomputer selling over 50,000 units during its lifetime. Engineer Gardner Hendrie for Computer Control Corporation (CCC), announced the DDP-116 at the 1965 Spring Joint Computer Conference. It was the world's first commercial 16-bit minicomputer costing $28,500. 1969 1969 Kitchen Computer Winter 1969 - The DDP-116 was the predecessor of the more popularized Honeywell 316 "Kitchen Computer" featured in the Neiman Marcus holiday gift catalog for just $10,000. The minicomputer weighed over 100 pounds and was advertised as useful for storing recipes, meal planning and balancing the family checkbook. The price tag included a two-week programming course. The Kitchen Computer represented the first time a computer was offered as a consumer product. 1971 1971 First Commercial At just 6 years old Todd’s first acting job was a Jell-O commercial he did with his mom and siblings. Betty was a budding actress and was excited to book the commercial with her children. Gaming is Born August 1971 - the first arcade game, Computer Space , debuted. Developed by Nolan Bushnell and Ted Dabney, the pair would go on to create the Atari company. Building on their success with coin-operated gaming, Atari released its iconic Pong game the next year. Want to try your hand at the retro favorite? Check out our Todd Pong game! 1972 1972 "I Want to Be on TV!" At age 7, Todd’s favorite TV show was Sanford & Son . Todd told his mom that he wanted to be on TV like Red Foxx. Move to Hollywood Betty wanted more acting opportunities, so she decided to move to the LA area. She chose Culver City from a magazine and found a house she liked. After running their credit and confirming financials over the phone, the family visited the realtor. Todd's first experience with racism -- when Betty met the realtor in person, he claimed the house was suddenly sold. Of course it wasn't. They still managed to buy the house through a white friend who acted on their behalf. 1974 1974 Tinkering Todd Betty recalls Todd at age 9 or 10 tinkering with the family's radios, 8-track player and TV. Todd was incredible at fixing things, but sometimes he would take them apart without permission. His mother thought they'd be broken forever, but she said he'd always find a way to put them back together. 1975 1975 Personal Computers January 1975 - A company called Micro Instrumentation and Telemetry Systems (MITS) offered a build-it-yourself computer kit called the Altair 8800 through mail order (because, you know, no internet). The kit was featured on the cover of Popular Electronics and even with no keyboard and no screen, hobbyists flooded MITS with orders for the $397 computer kit. MITS hired Paul G. Allen and Bill Gates, a couple of bright students at Harvard, to adapt the BASIC programming language for the Altair. The software was a hit, making Altair easier to use. Gates & Allen took their earnings from “Altair BASIC” and formed a little company of their own called Microsoft , you might have heard of it. First TV Appearance April 14, 1975 - Todd's first big gig in California was doing an episode for a show called Barney Miller . Todd played a kid, Truman Jackson, who held up Mrs. Miller with a pointy stick. She disarmed him of his stick and made a citizen's arrest. At the 12th Precinct station, the detectives put Todd's character in jail to teach him a lesson. Todd enjoyed being in front of a live studio audience. "As an actor in front of a live audience, you get that immediate response to things you’re saying," Todd explained. "You get to hear the people laugh at your jokes – I loved it!" 1976 1976 Apple I April 1976 - A couple of other smart guys name Steve Jobs and Stephen Wozniak were also at work on a homemade computer. They released Apple I, which sold for $666.66. It was more sophisticated than the Altair, with more memory, a better microprocessor and a monitor with a screen. More TV Time Todd continues to work as a child actor, including appearances in The Practice and the popular Police Story . 1977 1977 Discovering His Roots January 23, 1977 - Todd got a history lesson in his role on Roots . He recalls learning about slavery from the script. "It made me so angry," Todd said. "I still vividly remember the scene where the slave owner (played by Lloyd Bridges ) grabbed George Stanford Brown (who was playing my father), tied him to a tree, and whipped him. We weren’t taught much about black history in school, so I learned a lot about it, making and watching that movie." Fish Out of Water February 5, 1977 - Back when Todd did the Barney Miller show, producer Danny Arnold promised to get Todd and Abe Vigoda a show of their own. He delivered with FISH . A spin-off of Barney Miller that aired on ABC from February 5, 1977 to May 18, 1978. The series starred Vigoda as NYPD Detective Phil Fish with Florence Stanley as his wife Bernice. The couple became foster parents to a racially-mixed group of five children, where Todd fit in. After FISH aired, Todd got his first tastes of being a celebrity, beginning to be recognized in public. The Wisdom of Solomon March 7, 1977 - Todd plays Solomon on Little House on the Prairie . Even as a child, Todd spoke really good English, and he recalls his mom training him to speak with broken English for this role. Todd's performances opposite Michael Landon challenging racism were so emotional powerful , Todd's mother Betty recalls from on set, that even executives who watched filming from the studio's upper decks were moved to tears. Apple II June 10, 1977 - Steve Jobs and Stephen Wozniak introduced the Apple II computer with a keyboard, color screen and the ability to store data on external cassette tapes. For the first time, an attractive plastic housing hid the inner electronics. The Apple II with 4 KiB of RAM sold for $1298. Joysticks at Home September 1977 - Atari releases their first home video game console originally called the Atari Video Computer System or VCS. With that iconic joystick, the cartridge-based gaming system allowed users to play a variety of video games. The Atari VCS, which later became known as the Atari 2600, marked the beginning of a new era in video gaming. For Todd and his friends it was a total game changer. “We were just so happy not to have to go stand around in the arcade anymore,” Todd said. “Now we could just play video games at home!” The Stray September 22, 1977 - Todd plays a 12-year-old runaway, found hiding out in the barn, on an episode of The Waltons . 1978 1978 Love Boat October 21, 1978 - In an episode of the Love Boat a rich couple are aboard with their young son, played by Todd. The plotline: the father spends more time on work than with his son. Diff'rent Strokes November 3, 1978 - Diff'rent Strokes debuts on NBC. As Fish was winding down, Todd was cast as Willis Jackson on Diff'rent Strokes . Todd was also offered a spot on Mork & Mindy but had to choose between the two roles. Luckily he chose Diff'rent Strokes which was his big break. For 8 years, Todd starred alongside Gary Coleman , who played little brother Arnold in the series featuring two black boys from Harlem taken in by a rich, white businessman and his daughter, played by Conrad Bain and Dana Plato . Charlotte Rae rounded out the cast as the housekeeper. 1979 1979 The Hero October 24, 1979 - World champion boxer Muhammad Ali makes a guest appearance on Diff’rent Strokes . The storyline involved little brother Arnold wanting to meet the boxer, his childhood hero. Willis and Kimberly get in touch with Ali and fib that their little brother is dying and that his last wish is to meet the boxer who agrees under the false pretenses. Todd fondly remembers the filming of what he calls his favorite episode of Diff’rent Strokes . 1980 1980 First Love December 31, 1980 - The Diff'rent Strokes storyline called for Willis to get a girlfriend . Todd suggested a recent acquaintance named Janet Jackson might be perfect for the role. When Janet is cast as Charlene DuPrey, Todd is excited to spend more time with her. Eventually the pair start dating off screen as well. Facts of Life Todd also appears as Willis Jackson on episodes of The Facts of Life, a series spinoff from Diff'rent Strokes . The Drummond family's housekeeper Mrs. Garrett, played by Charlotte Rae is offered a position at Kimberly Drummond's all-girls private school, the setting for The Facts of Life . You probably remember Blair, Tootie, Natalie, and Jo. Although it was Kimberly's school she wasn't a regular on the series. Still there was quite a bit of crossover between the two shows, which aired simultaneously for six years. 1983 1983 The Internet Age Begins January 1, 1983 - Considered the official birthday of the Internet. Prior to this, the various computer networks did not have a standard way to communicate with each other. A new communications protocol was instituted called Transfer Control Protocol/Internetwork Protocol. Hacking Isn’t Illegal Yet Todd and his buddies hack the new Gameline Master Module, and add-on device that used a phone line to access the Atari gaming catalog. They found a backdoor in one of the games, gaining free access to a bunch of extra games. "We were living it up until guys in suits from Atari showed up on my doorstep," Todd said. "My mom was so mad, but the Atari guys were cool about it. They just wanted us to show them how we had done it." "Just Say No" March 19, 1983 - First Lady Nancy Reagan appears in a Diff’rent Strokes episode of Season 5. The plot involves Arnold as an investigative reporter for the school paper discovering drugs being sold on his fictional elementary school’s campus. Nancy’s cameo was part of the first lady’s “Just Say No” campaign aimed to fight drug abuse among the nation’s youth. The irony is not lost on Todd, who would later fall deep into a drug addiction and recalled the First Lady's words when he hit rock bottom. Coming of Age May 27, 1983 - Todd turns 18. As an adult he’s still working on Diff’rent Strokes , and loves acting so much. Even though he’s battling many emotional demons from abuse he suffered at the hands of his Father and publicist, Todd is keeping it together for the show. Todd’s parents are now divorced and he credits Conrad Bain, his TV Dad, with being the closest thing he had to a caring father figure. High School October 16, 1983 - The made-for-television comedy film High School U.S.A. airs on NBC. Todd starred alongside Michael J. Fox, Nancy McKeon, Dana Plato and many more of the biggest names of 80s television. 1984 1984 Todd's First Computer Todd builds his first computer, piecing it together from cast-off parts he was given from the Diff’rent Strokes studio offices. Todd recalls his computer was so slow -- but it worked! Todd has built at least 6 additional computers. "It used to be cheaper to piece together an awesome computer," he said. "Now it is more cost effective to buy a whole unit." 1985 1985 Not The Breakfast Club February 15, 1985 - The Breakfast Club debuts. Early in the film’s development, Todd happened to be seated next to director John Hughes on a flight. The two struck up a conversation, and Hughes offered Todd a role in his upcoming teen movie. But the offer was later rescinded by Hughes’s partner, who claimed they didn’t know “how to write for Black people.” Combined with the frequent harassment Todd faced from police (yes, even in his pre-drug days) it became increasingly clear that, as an adult, race would be more of an obstacle than it had been during his childhood. White Powder During his last year filming Diff’rent Strokes , Todd bought a big house in Northridge that had a palm sunset wall mural similar to one he’d seen in the movie Scarface . When Todd first moved into the house, he replaced the carpet. Being handy and frugal, Todd decided to rip out the carpet himself. Under some of the old carpet he found a bag of white powder. Todd had no idea what it was but his buddy recognized cocaine. “The ‘80s were the era of cocaine, and as soon as I knew to look for it, I realized it was everywhere,” Todd said. 1986 1986 The End March 7, 1986 - Diff'rent Strokes ends after being canceled by NBC but picked up by ABC for one more season. Tensions rise among the young actors due to Gary Coleman's parents' demands. The plot shifts with Mr. Drummond's remarriage and a new stepson named Sam. Gary's character, Arnold, loses comedic scenes to Sam. Gary's health conditions make it difficult to transition his character like they did with Willis. Gary's parents' financial demands clash with declining ratings. Diff'rent Strokes concludes quietly, in fact Todd didn’t even appear in the last episode. Concorde to London Feeling he’d earned a break, Todd decided to take a trip after finishing off Diff'rent Strokes . He was planning to head to New York and take the Concorde supersonic jet to London. Todd called his longtime accountants and asked them to make his funds available to book the tickets. They took a few days to get back to him, which was somewhat unusual but Todd figured they were busy. Right before Todd was scheduled to leave on his trip, his mother Betty made a startling discovery that their accountants were embezzling from both Todd's and her own accounts. In addition to stealing hundreds of thousands of dollars, the accountants had also failed to make the proper payments to the IRS. With accounts depleted and a $200,000 tax bill, Todd had to cash in his Concorde ticket and cancel his trip, staying home to try to salvage what was left. 1987 1987 Black Hole Fueled by a desperate desire to escape his emotional pain – from the racism, molestation by his publicist, and abuse and rejection by his father – Todd was sucked into a black hole of hard-core drugs. 1989 1989 World Wide Web March 12, 1989 - CERN computer scientist Tim Berners-Lee invents the World Wide Web. He published a proposal for a "web" of hypertext documents that could be viewed through a "browser." Although the first web pages, hosted by CERN, didn't go live until August 1991. 1990 1990 It’s Photoshop February 19, 1990 - The original Adobe Photoshop is released. This trailblazing software was developed in C++ by two brothers, Thomas and John Knoll , who sold the distribution license to Adobe Systems Incorporated. Adobe Photoshop has forever changed the way the world sees photos. 1992 1992 Did You Get My Text? December 3, 1992 - The first text message was sent from a computer to a cell phone. Mobile phones didn't have keyboards at the time, so the message was typed on a PC by Neil Papworth, a former developer at Sema Group Telecoms. Papworth's text was successfully sent to Richard Jarvis at Vodafone – it read, “Merry Christmas.” 1993 1993 One Day at a Time After several stints in rehab, Todd found his path to recovery. At 28 years old, he began letting "the program" work in his life. He went on to spend several years managing a sober living house in Venice, California. Todd also worked as a chemical dependency technician at a rehab hospital and volunteered with the Santa Monica court system, mentoring teen addicts. 1995 1995 The Mancow Show Todd moved to Chicago to do the sports report on The Mancow Show . After a couple years, Todd couldn’t handle the Windy City’s cold weather and headed back to sunny Los Angeles. 1996 1996 It's a Girl! November 1996 - Todd's daughter Bo Bridges is born! 1998 1998 It's a Boy! July 1998 - Todd's son Spencir Bridges is born! 2002 2002 "Mad Dog" Bridges March 13, 2002 - Todd appeared on the first episode of FOX’s Celebrity Boxing . He was billed as Todd “Mad Dog” Bridges in the fight against “Bi-Polar” Vanilla Ice. Todd defeated the former rapper. Todd controlled nearly the entire fight, flooring Vanilla Ice in rounds one and two. All three judges scored the match in Todd’s favor. 2007 2007 Everybody Hates Chris January 22, 2007 - Todd first appears as Monk on Everybody Hates Chris . Monk is Doc’s nephew and helps manage the store while his uncle is away. Todd continues with the TV series until its conclusion in 2009. 2008 2008 World's Dumbest March 13, 2008 - Todd appears on the debut episode of World’s Dumbest. Todd gets to be himself, making commentary to accompany videos of dumb criminals. Todd became a regular on the “World’s Dumbest” series, featured in 166 episodes. 2010 2010 Killing Willis April 28 - Todd releases a memoir co-authored with Sarah Tomlinson called, " Killing Willis: From Diff'rent Strokes to the Mean Streets to the Life I Always Wanted. " The autobiography was widely praised as a compelling survival story. It includes surprising detail as Todd is incredibly open about his struggle with the police, addiction and Hollywood life. 2022 2022 Big Brother February 2, 2022 - Todd appears on reality TV series Celebrity Big Brother, Season 3. Todd makes it to the final four. Father of Six! Todd marries Bettijo and adds 4 stepchildren to his family: Attalie , Piper, Modette and Rockwell. Todd's Livestream Todd launches his livestream on Twitch. He's online almost everyday hanging out with other gamers and fans playing mostly Fortnite among other things. 2023 2023 30 Years Todd celebrates 30 years in recovery and begins work on the Society for Ethical Addiction Treatment , an organization with a mission to overhaul the addiction treatment industry, bridging the gap between addiction research and care. 2024 2024 Everybody Still Hates Chris September 25, 2024 - Todd reprises his Monk character in a new cartoon version of the hit Everybody Hates Chris series, streaming on Comedy Central. DANG! December 3, 2024 - Todd and his wife, Bettijo, launch the DANG! Podcast sharing raw, candid chats about life’s messy realities — the stuff you won’t see in those perfectly filtered feeds. DANG! delves into everything from love and family to mental health struggles like anxiety and addiction. Todd's Merch Clothing Clothing Tech Tech Stickers Stickers Mugs Mugs 1 / of 4 Navigation Todd's Bio Todd's Podcast Addiction Recovery Info Todd's Merch Shipping Info Return Policy Privacy Policy Reach Us Have a question or comment? Feel free to get in touch . Subscribe to Todd's Emails Email Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2026, Loop 101 Media, LLC Powered by Shopify and Printful Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh. Opens in a new window.