Commandants / The SS garrison / History / Auschwitz-Birkenau Main content The site and on the sides of the subsidiaries are used cookies. We use them for maximum convenience while using our services. If you agree to save the information contained in the cookies, please continue to use the service. If not, please change your browser settings. Font size: A A A Home Page Bookstore Donate Reservation Search Polski ⽆A㞸óὨñЖ History Visiting Education Museum MEMORIAL AND MUSEUM AUSCHWITZ-BIRKENAU FORMER GERMAN NAZI CONCENTRATION AND EXTERMINATION CAMP Museum Pokaż menu niższego poziomu dla Museum News Pokaż menu niższego poziomu dla News Memoria Magazine The International Auschwitz Council Pokaż menu niższego poziomu dla The International Auschwitz Council Members of the IAC (3rd Term of Office) IAC Meetings Preservation Historical collection Archives Pokaż menu niższego poziomu dla Archives Accessibility Collection Photo gallery Finances Foundation Museum Reports Museum Structure History of the Memorial Photo gallery Bookstore Contact Honorary Consuls History Pokaż menu niższego poziomu dla History Home Page - History Before the extermination Auschwitz I Auschwitz II-Birkenau Auschwitz III-Monowitz Auschwitz sub-camps Pokaż menu niższego poziomu dla Auschwitz sub-camps Altdorf Althammer Babitz Birkenau Bismarckhütte Blechhammer Bobrek Brünn Budy Charlottegrube Chelmek Eintrachthütte Freudenthal Fürstengrube Gleiwitz I Gleiwitz II Gleiwitz III Gleiwitz IV Golleschau Günthergrube Harmense Hindenburg Hubertshütte Janinagrube Jawischowitz Kobier Lagischa Laurahütte Lichtewerden Mesersitz Monowitz Neu-Dachs Neustadt Plawy Radostowitz Raisko Sonderkommando Kattowitz Sośnica Sosnowitz (I) Sosnowitz (II) SS Bauzug SS Hütte Porombka Trzebinia Tschechowitz (I) Tschechowitz (II) Auschwitz and Shoah Categories of prisoners Prisoner classification Fate of children Life in the camp Punishments and executions Camp hospitals Medical experiments Resistance Informing the world Evacuation Pokaż menu niższego poziomu dla Evacuation In the wake of Death March Liberation The number of victims The SS garrison Holocaust denial Auschwitz Calendar Photo gallery Information on victims Visiting Pokaż menu niższego poziomu dla Visiting Home Page - Visiting Preparation and summary of a visit Reservation Tours options Online guided tours Opening hours Getting to the Museum Rules for Visiting Permanent Exhibition National Exhibitions On-line Exhibitions Temporarily closed for visitors Virtual tour Plan your visit Information plaques Attendance Photo gallery Education Pokaż menu niższego poziomu dla Education Home Page - Education Study visits Projects and Seminars Pokaż menu niższego poziomu dla Projects and Seminars Archive Conferences Pokaż menu niższego poziomu dla Conferences Archive Webinars / Thematic sessions Exhibitions Pokaż menu niższego poziomu dla Exhibitions Auschwitz, Memory, World Forbidden Art German Plans for Auschwitz Redevelopment June 14, 1940 Leben? Oder Theatre? Charlotte Salomon 1917-1943 Nazi German Death Camp Konzentrationslager Auschwitz People of Good Will Residents of Insurrectionary Warsaw So I am here kneeling down upon this Golgotha of modern times... Sport and sportspeople in KL Auschwitz The Auschwitz experience in the art of prisoners The Liberation of KL Auschwitz The Memory of Auschwitz Traces of them remain Women at KL Auschwitz Visiting the Memorial E-learning Pokaż menu niższego poziomu dla E-learning Interactive educational materials Online lessons Podcast Pokaż menu niższego poziomu dla Podcast The first transports of women to KL Auschwitz Auschwitz functionary prisoners. Selected postwar fates Library - Online Catalogue Volunteer Bureau Resources for teachers ICEAH – General Information “Light of Remembrance” Calls for educational projects Contact Main page History The SS garrison Commandants Commandants ... The Auschwitz Concentration Camp commandant stood at the head of the camp personnel and the garrison stationed there. The first commandant of Auschwitz was SS-Obersturmbannführer Rudolf Höss (May 1940-November 1943). His successors were SS-Obersturmbannführer Arthur Liebehenschel (November 1943-May 1944) and SS-Sturmbannführer Richard Baer (May 1944-January 1945). After the first organizational reform of the Auschwitz complex, the commandants of Birkenau (Auschwitz II Concentration Camp) between November 1943 and November 1944 were, first, SS-Sturmbannführer Friedrich Hartjenstein, replaced by SS-Hauptsturmführer Josef Kramer. The commandant of Auschwitz III (known from November 1943 as Monowitz Concentration Camp) was SS-Hauptsturmführer Heinrich Schwarz. The commandant had complete authority over the camp and the SS garrison. In turn, he reported to the Inspectorate of Concentration Camps. After the inspectorate became part of the SS Main Economic-Administration Office (Wirtschaftsverwaltungshauptamat, SS-WVHA) on March 3, 1942, the concentration camp commandants came under the authority of Office Group D (Amtsgruppe D) in the SS-WVHA. Commandants The command hierarchy The organizational structure of Auschwitz Concentration Camp Trials of SS men from the Auschwitz Concentration Camp garrison (Un)justice Donate Sitemap Contact Press Newsletter Volunteering and Internships Copyright Public Information Links RSS Accessibility Ministry's support EU Funds World Heritage DRONES | FLIGHTS GDPR © 2026 | Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum Build by Ideo Our profil on facebook Our profil on Instagram Our profil on YouTube Our profil on Threads Our profil on Bluesky Save photo Images from www.auschwitz.org may be used only in publications relating to the history of the German Nazi concentration and extermination camp Auschwitz-Birkenau or the activities of the Auschwitz Memorial. Their use must not tarnish the good reputation of the victims of KL Auschwitz. Any interference in the integrity of the images – including cropping or graphic processing – is prohibited. The use of the images for commercial purposes requires the Museum’s approval and information about the publication. Publishers undertake to indicate the authors and origin of the images: www.auschwitz.org, as well as to inform the Museum of the use of the images (press@auschwitz.org). Accept Cancel