Happy 50th 'SNL!' Look back at the show's very first cast | AP News Menu World SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Top US commander visits aircraft carrier, Gaza talks in Egypt and other Mideast news Athens is cleaning its all-marble Olympic stadium for the first time in more than a century Ukraine launches one of its largest aerial attacks of the war, killing at least 6 people in Russia Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES Teen boy among 6 dead including suspect in Michigan shootings; girl survived Indiana authorities say at least 5 people have died as severe weather crosses the state Miami to decide fate of stunning stadium where speedboats raced and Jimmy Buffett played Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES Republicans won the redistricting competition. Don't tell that to this California congressman Democrats disagree over abolishing or reforming ICE at DNC meeting Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NFL College football MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Golf TOP STORIES Tommy John, namesake for a pioneering elbow surgery that saved his career, dead at 83 Michael Phelps returns poolside with his sons as 8-year-old Beckett eyes swimming Joshua Báez of the Cardinals hits 3 homers in his first 3 at-bats in a historic major league debut Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES Box Office: ‘Spider-Man’ stays on top while two dino movies battle for third Fans de Bonnie Tyler llenan las calles de pueblo galés para su funeral Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Berkshire Hathaway boosted stake in Alphabet, homebuilders in the second quarter Science Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities TOP STORIES Capybaras keep their chill while crashing Brazilian legislature A humpback whale briefly swallows kayaker in Chilean Patagonia — and it's all captured on camera Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Ghana's fantasy coffins are a colorful celebration of life and legacy Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year A driver faces up to $110,000 in fines for speeding on a Swiss street. But he can afford it Be Well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES Bedbugs can cause people to lose sleep — and blood. Here's what to do about them Challenging your brain helps keep it healthy. Here's how to do it Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Photography SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES Diving into the blue sky, watched by the Eiffel Tower AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 How a photographer centered one woman amid the destruction of a Spokane wildfire Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Peru steps up fight against illegal gold mining as activity enters protected Amazon reserve The warming climate is forcing marathons to consider changes to keep runners cool Oppressive heat, high humidity grip much of the US as students start a new school year Health TOP STORIES Obesity drugs show early promise against the hormonal disorder PMOS, giving a suffering family hope Bedbugs can cause people to lose sleep — and blood. Here's what to do about them Trump signs order calling for spacing out childhood vaccines, against medical groups' guidance Challenging your brain helps keep it healthy. Here's how to do it Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Trump's vaccine plan would require millions of individual shots last used decades ago Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Jury finds Instagram and YouTube liable in a landmark social media addiction trial His son died after a sextortion scheme. He's among many parents celebrating the rulings against Meta One Tech Tip: Don't use rice for your device. Here's how to dry out your smartphone Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES Pull up to the window, please, for a glimpse of an American icon: The drive-thru How clocks, calendars and time zones came to be How to test your lawn for grubs and what to do if you find them Religion TOP STORIES Europe's tallest statue of the Virgin Mary is inaugurated in a small Polish village Israel’s Christians rely on faith and allies as they fear rising harassment A look at the history and beliefs behind Japan’s controversial shrine to the war dead Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES Terremoto frente a Indonesia deja al menos 47 muertos y edificios derrumbados Mientras el Talibán cumple 5 años en el poder en Afganistán, la ONU alerta de crisis de derechos Fans de Bonnie Tyler llenan las calles de pueblo galés para su funeral Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct MORE World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Top US commander visits aircraft carrier, Gaza talks in Egypt and other Mideast news Athens is cleaning its all-marble Olympic stadium for the first time in more than a century Ukraine launches one of its largest aerial attacks of the war, killing at least 6 people in Russia Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES Teen boy among 6 dead including suspect in Michigan shootings; girl survived Indiana authorities say at least 5 people have died as severe weather crosses the state Miami to decide fate of stunning stadium where speedboats raced and Jimmy Buffett played Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES Republicans won the redistricting competition. Don't tell that to this California congressman Democrats disagree over abolishing or reforming ICE at DNC meeting Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports NFL College football MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing SECTIONS NFL College football MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Golf TOP STORIES Tommy John, namesake for a pioneering elbow surgery that saved his career, dead at 83 Michael Phelps returns poolside with his sons as 8-year-old Beckett eyes swimming Joshua Báez of the Cardinals hits 3 homers in his first 3 at-bats in a historic major league debut Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES Box Office: ‘Spider-Man’ stays on top while two dino movies battle for third Fans de Bonnie Tyler llenan las calles de pueblo galés para su funeral Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Berkshire Hathaway boosted stake in Alphabet, homebuilders in the second quarter Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities TOP STORIES Capybaras keep their chill while crashing Brazilian legislature A humpback whale briefly swallows kayaker in Chilean Patagonia — and it's all captured on camera Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Ghana's fantasy coffins are a colorful celebration of life and legacy Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year A driver faces up to $110,000 in fines for speeding on a Swiss street. But he can afford it Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES Bedbugs can cause people to lose sleep — and blood. Here's what to do about them Challenging your brain helps keep it healthy. Here's how to do it Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Photography Photo Essays SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES Diving into the blue sky, watched by the Eiffel Tower AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 How a photographer centered one woman amid the destruction of a Spokane wildfire Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Peru steps up fight against illegal gold mining as activity enters protected Amazon reserve The warming climate is forcing marathons to consider changes to keep runners cool Oppressive heat, high humidity grip much of the US as students start a new school year Health TOP STORIES Obesity drugs show early promise against the hormonal disorder PMOS, giving a suffering family hope Bedbugs can cause people to lose sleep — and blood. Here's what to do about them Trump signs order calling for spacing out childhood vaccines, against medical groups' guidance Challenging your brain helps keep it healthy. Here's how to do it Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Trump's vaccine plan would require millions of individual shots last used decades ago Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Jury finds Instagram and YouTube liable in a landmark social media addiction trial His son died after a sextortion scheme. He's among many parents celebrating the rulings against Meta One Tech Tip: Don't use rice for your device. Here's how to dry out your smartphone Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES Pull up to the window, please, for a glimpse of an American icon: The drive-thru How clocks, calendars and time zones came to be How to test your lawn for grubs and what to do if you find them Religion TOP STORIES Europe's tallest statue of the Virgin Mary is inaugurated in a small Polish village Israel’s Christians rely on faith and allies as they fear rising harassment A look at the history and beliefs behind Japan’s controversial shrine to the war dead Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español Política de EEUU Deportes SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES Terremoto frente a Indonesia deja al menos 47 muertos y edificios derrumbados Mientras el Talibán cumple 5 años en el poder en Afganistán, la ONU alerta de crisis de derechos Fans de Bonnie Tyler llenan las calles de pueblo galés para su funeral Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct SECTIONS ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog Copyright 2026 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Menu World SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Top US commander visits aircraft carrier, Gaza talks in Egypt and other Mideast news Athens is cleaning its all-marble Olympic stadium for the first time in more than a century Ukraine launches one of its largest aerial attacks of the war, killing at least 6 people in Russia Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES Teen boy among 6 dead including suspect in Michigan shootings; girl survived Indiana authorities say at least 5 people have died as severe weather crosses the state Miami to decide fate of stunning stadium where speedboats raced and Jimmy Buffett played Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES Republicans won the redistricting competition. Don't tell that to this California congressman Democrats disagree over abolishing or reforming ICE at DNC meeting Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NFL College football MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Golf TOP STORIES Tommy John, namesake for a pioneering elbow surgery that saved his career, dead at 83 Michael Phelps returns poolside with his sons as 8-year-old Beckett eyes swimming Joshua Báez of the Cardinals hits 3 homers in his first 3 at-bats in a historic major league debut Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES Box Office: ‘Spider-Man’ stays on top while two dino movies battle for third Fans de Bonnie Tyler llenan las calles de pueblo galés para su funeral Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Berkshire Hathaway boosted stake in Alphabet, homebuilders in the second quarter Science Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities TOP STORIES Capybaras keep their chill while crashing Brazilian legislature A humpback whale briefly swallows kayaker in Chilean Patagonia — and it's all captured on camera Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Ghana's fantasy coffins are a colorful celebration of life and legacy Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year A driver faces up to $110,000 in fines for speeding on a Swiss street. But he can afford it Be Well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES Bedbugs can cause people to lose sleep — and blood. Here's what to do about them Challenging your brain helps keep it healthy. Here's how to do it Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Photography SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES Diving into the blue sky, watched by the Eiffel Tower AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 How a photographer centered one woman amid the destruction of a Spokane wildfire Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Peru steps up fight against illegal gold mining as activity enters protected Amazon reserve The warming climate is forcing marathons to consider changes to keep runners cool Oppressive heat, high humidity grip much of the US as students start a new school year Health TOP STORIES Obesity drugs show early promise against the hormonal disorder PMOS, giving a suffering family hope Bedbugs can cause people to lose sleep — and blood. Here's what to do about them Trump signs order calling for spacing out childhood vaccines, against medical groups' guidance Challenging your brain helps keep it healthy. Here's how to do it Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Trump's vaccine plan would require millions of individual shots last used decades ago Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Jury finds Instagram and YouTube liable in a landmark social media addiction trial His son died after a sextortion scheme. He's among many parents celebrating the rulings against Meta One Tech Tip: Don't use rice for your device. Here's how to dry out your smartphone Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES Pull up to the window, please, for a glimpse of an American icon: The drive-thru How clocks, calendars and time zones came to be How to test your lawn for grubs and what to do if you find them Religion TOP STORIES Europe's tallest statue of the Virgin Mary is inaugurated in a small Polish village Israel’s Christians rely on faith and allies as they fear rising harassment A look at the history and beliefs behind Japan’s controversial shrine to the war dead Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES Terremoto frente a Indonesia deja al menos 47 muertos y edificios derrumbados Mientras el Talibán cumple 5 años en el poder en Afganistán, la ONU alerta de crisis de derechos Fans de Bonnie Tyler llenan las calles de pueblo galés para su funeral Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct MORE World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Top US commander visits aircraft carrier, Gaza talks in Egypt and other Mideast news Athens is cleaning its all-marble Olympic stadium for the first time in more than a century Ukraine launches one of its largest aerial attacks of the war, killing at least 6 people in Russia Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES Teen boy among 6 dead including suspect in Michigan shootings; girl survived Indiana authorities say at least 5 people have died as severe weather crosses the state Miami to decide fate of stunning stadium where speedboats raced and Jimmy Buffett played Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES Republicans won the redistricting competition. Don't tell that to this California congressman Democrats disagree over abolishing or reforming ICE at DNC meeting Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports NFL College football MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing SECTIONS NFL College football MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Golf TOP STORIES Tommy John, namesake for a pioneering elbow surgery that saved his career, dead at 83 Michael Phelps returns poolside with his sons as 8-year-old Beckett eyes swimming Joshua Báez of the Cardinals hits 3 homers in his first 3 at-bats in a historic major league debut Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES Box Office: ‘Spider-Man’ stays on top while two dino movies battle for third Fans de Bonnie Tyler llenan las calles de pueblo galés para su funeral Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Berkshire Hathaway boosted stake in Alphabet, homebuilders in the second quarter Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities TOP STORIES Capybaras keep their chill while crashing Brazilian legislature A humpback whale briefly swallows kayaker in Chilean Patagonia — and it's all captured on camera Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Ghana's fantasy coffins are a colorful celebration of life and legacy Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year A driver faces up to $110,000 in fines for speeding on a Swiss street. But he can afford it Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES Bedbugs can cause people to lose sleep — and blood. Here's what to do about them Challenging your brain helps keep it healthy. Here's how to do it Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Photography Photo Essays SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES Diving into the blue sky, watched by the Eiffel Tower AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 How a photographer centered one woman amid the destruction of a Spokane wildfire Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Peru steps up fight against illegal gold mining as activity enters protected Amazon reserve The warming climate is forcing marathons to consider changes to keep runners cool Oppressive heat, high humidity grip much of the US as students start a new school year Health TOP STORIES Obesity drugs show early promise against the hormonal disorder PMOS, giving a suffering family hope Bedbugs can cause people to lose sleep — and blood. Here's what to do about them Trump signs order calling for spacing out childhood vaccines, against medical groups' guidance Challenging your brain helps keep it healthy. Here's how to do it Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Trump's vaccine plan would require millions of individual shots last used decades ago Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Jury finds Instagram and YouTube liable in a landmark social media addiction trial His son died after a sextortion scheme. He's among many parents celebrating the rulings against Meta One Tech Tip: Don't use rice for your device. Here's how to dry out your smartphone Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES Pull up to the window, please, for a glimpse of an American icon: The drive-thru How clocks, calendars and time zones came to be How to test your lawn for grubs and what to do if you find them Religion TOP STORIES Europe's tallest statue of the Virgin Mary is inaugurated in a small Polish village Israel’s Christians rely on faith and allies as they fear rising harassment A look at the history and beliefs behind Japan’s controversial shrine to the war dead Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español Política de EEUU Deportes SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES Terremoto frente a Indonesia deja al menos 47 muertos y edificios derrumbados Mientras el Talibán cumple 5 años en el poder en Afganistán, la ONU alerta de crisis de derechos Fans de Bonnie Tyler llenan las calles de pueblo galés para su funeral Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct SECTIONS ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog Copyright 2026 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Entertainment Happy 50th ‘SNL!’ Here’s a look back at the show’s very first cast Happy 50th ‘SNL!’ Here’s a look back at the show’s very first cast 1 of 18 | FILE - Chevy Chase, a cast member on “Saturday Night Live,” holds his Emmy Award as he watches a monitor showing producer Lorne Michaels accepting another Emmy for the show, while writers Alan Zweibel, left, and Tom Davis, right, look on, during the 28th Primetime Emmy Awards in Los Angeles on May 17, 1976. (AP Photo/Reed Saxon, File) Read More 2 of 18 | FILE - Castmember Gilda Radner appears on the set of “Saturday Night Live,” in New York on Dec. 1, 1977. Radner died May 20, 1989, at age 42 after a long battle with ovarian cancer. (AP Photo/Ron Frehm, File) Read More 3 of 18 | FILE - Actor John Belushi appears at the opening night party for “Animal House” at the Village Gate in New York on July 27, 1978. Belushi died March 5, 1982, at 33 after overdosing at the Chateau Marmont in Los Angeles. (AP Photo, File) Read More 4 of 18 | FILE - White House Press Secretary Ron Nessen, left, appears on the “Saturday Night Live” set with producer Lorne Michaels, right, and cast members Chevy Chase, foreground center, Laraine Newman, background left, Dan Aykroyd, background right, Jane Curtin, second row from left, Gilda Radner, John Belushi and Garret Morris, partially obscured, on April 17, 1976, in New York. (AP Photo) Read More 5 of 18 | FILE - Actor Burt Reynolds, second right, appears on the set with cast members of NBC’s “Saturday Night Live,” from left, Jane Curtin, Laraine Newman, Gilda Radner, and Bill Murray, right, in New York, April 12, 1980. (AP Photo/Suzanne Vlamis, File) Read More 6 of 18 | FILE - Comedian Chevy Chase, second from left, joins the cast of NBC’s “Saturday Night Live,” with Laraine Newman, from right, Gilda Radner, Bill Murray and Jane Curtin, left, on Feb. 16, 1978 in New York. (AP Photo/Marty Lederhandler, File) Read More 7 of 18 | FILE - The coffin for actor John Belushi is carried out of the Congregational Church by pallbearers Dan Aykroyd, left, and Belushi’s brother Jim Belushi, right, following funeral services in West Tinsbury, Mass., on March 9, 1982. Belushi died March 5, at 33 after overdosing at the Chateau Marmont in Los Angeles. (AP Photo/Dave Tenenbaum, File) Read More 8 of 18 | FILE - Steve Martin, from left, Chevy Chase, and Martin Short appear at the premiere of their film “Three Amigos!” in New York on Dec. 9, 1986. (AP Photo/Frankie Ziths, File) Read More 9 of 18 | FILE - Chevy Chase gets his ear licked from co-star Benji the dog, during a news conference in Los Angeles announcing their movie “Oh Heavenly Dog” on Sept. 6, 1979. (AP Photo/Nick Ut, file) Read More 10 of 18 | FILE - Actor Chevy Chase, center, sits on the front row during the second half of an NBA basketball game between the Atlanta Hawks and Dallas Mavericks in Dallas on April 4, 2024. (AP Photo/LM Otero, File) Read More 11 of 18 | FILE - Dan Aykroyd poses for a portrait in West Hollywood, Calif., Tuesday, May 19, 2009. (AP Photo/Chris Pizzello, File) Read More 12 of 18 | FILE - Dan Aykroyd attends the world premiere of “Get On Up” in New York on July 21, 2014. (Photo by Evan Agostini/Invision/AP, File) Read More 13 of 18 | FILE - Dan Aykroyd poses for a photo in Los Angeles on Dec. 4, 2010. (AP Photo/Sarah Hummert, File) Read More 14 of 18 | FILE - Emmy winners, from left, Jane Curtin, John Ritter, and Tyne Daly pose backstage at the Emmy Awards presentation at the Pasadena Civic Auditorium in Pasadena, Ca., Sept. 23, 1984. Curtin won for best actress in a comedy series for “Kate and Allie"; Ritter was named outstanding actor in a comedy series for his role in “Three’s Company"; and Daly won for best actress in a dramatic series for “Cagney and Lacey.” (AP Photo, File) Read More 15 of 18 | FILE - Laraine Newman arrives at the premiere “Live from New York!” in Los Angeles on June 10, 2015. (Photo by Richard Shotwell/Invision/AP, File) Read More 16 of 18 | FILE - Civil Rights activist and politician Julian Bond, left, appears with “Saturday Night Live” cast member Garrett Morris during a rehearsal for the sketch comedy series on April 7, 1977, in New York. (AP Photo/Dave Pickoff, File) Read More 17 of 18 | FILE - Actor Garrett Morris attends a ceremony honoring him with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame on Thursday, Feb. 1, 2024, in Los Angeles. (Photo by Richard Shotwell/Invision/AP, File) Read More 18 of 18 | FILE - Actor John Belushi appears at the opening night party for “Animal House” at the Village Gate in New York on July 27, 1978. Belushi died March 5, 1982, at 33 after overdosing at the Chateau Marmont in Los Angeles. (AP Photo, File) Read More By LEANNE ITALIE Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit NEW YORK (AP) — Live from New York! It’s 50 seasons later for “SNL.” The landmark NBC sketch comedy show “Saturday Night Live” premiered Oct. 11, 1975, with drop-dead dark humor and pratfalls, George Carlin as host and not one but two musical guests: Billy Preston and Janis Ian. On Saturday nights, in those early years, young people gathered around TVs to watch the Lorne Michaels production that served up counterculture to the mass market via the Not Ready for Prime Time Players. “What is attractive and unusual about the program is that it is an attempt, finally, to provide entertainment on television in a recognizable human, non-celebrity voice, and in a voice, too, that tries to deal with the morass of media-induced show business culture that increasingly pervades American life,” The New Yorker’s Michael J. Arlen wrote in a 1975 review. Fast forward to this year, Sept. 28, when the first episode of “SNL’s” half-century season is set to air in a lead-up to a three-hour live primetime special Feb. 16 on, gasp, a Sunday. Jean Smart will host to open the season, with Jelly Roll as musical guest. White House Press Secretary Ron Nessen, left, appears on the “Saturday Night Live” set with producer Lorne Michaels, right, and the “SNL” cast in April 1976. (AP Photo) Over the decades, some seasons were better than others, with breakout stars like Eddie Murphy, Adam Sandler, Tina Fey, Will Ferrell, Mike Myers and more following the original seven. So what became of the very first cast, the freshman class, post-"SNL?” Here’s a catchup. Read More John Belushi “National Lampoon’s Animal House,” “Continental Divide,” “Neighbors” and all things The Blues Brothers. Belushi left “SNL” in 1979 to pursue music and film projects. That he did, to bad reviews and good. Following years of drug use, he died March 5, 1982, at 33 after overdosing at the Chateau Marmont in Los Angeles. Belushi’s death stunned and saddened his friends and fans and symbolized the end of the hard-living ‘70s. In addition to his mischievous, often frenzied performances on “SNL,” Belushi appeared in other films as well, including the drama “Old Boyfriends” and the poorly-reviewed Steven Spielberg–directed historical comedy “1941.” Before that, Belushi birthed his “Joliet” Jake Blues, joining fellow “SNL” cast member Dan Aykroyd as brother Elwood. Their TV debut as the brothers blue came on “SNL” in 1978. The sunglass-wearing, dark-suited Blues Brothers took on a fame of their own with the self-titled 1980 movie, directed by John Landis. After Belushi’s death, “Blues Brothers 2000” was released in 1998 in tribute with most of the first film’s original cast. Belushi in 1978 (AP Photo, File) After Belushi’s death, many of his loved ones, including his widow Judith Belushi Pisano, were angered by the negative narrative tone of “Wired,” the Bob Woodward book about the comic genius. Belushi Pisano and Tanner Colby responded with a book of their own, “Belushi: A Biography.” Belushi Pisano, his high school sweetheart, died in July from cancer. John Belushi shared a writing Emmy with fellow “SNL” cast members and writers in 1977. Gilda Radner Gilda Radner on the set of “Saturday Night Live” in 1977. (AP Photo/Ron Frehm, File) Nasally Roseanne Roseannadanna. Weird teen Lisa Loopner. Weekend Update’s “never mind” complainer Emily Litella. Radner contributed an endearing sweetness to the inaugural season of “SNL.” She stayed for five years. In 1979, the Emmy and Grammy winner took to Broadway to perform a one-woman show, “Gilda Live.” Included were some of her most beloved “SNL” characters, including Baba Wawa, a spoof of Barbara Walters. The show was filmed and released as a movie. Radner appeared in several other films, including “First Family” and “The Woman in Red,” the latter a 1984 hit written and directed by her co-star and future husband, Gene Wilder. Among other projects: She starred in the 1980 Broadway drama “Lunch Hour.” Radner died May 20, 1989, at age 42 after a long battle with ovarian cancer. Her book detailing her cancer fight was released earlier that year. A documentary about her life, “Love Gilda,” was released in 2018. Chevy Chase gets his ear licked from co-star Benji the dog in 1979. (AP Photo/Nick Ut, file) Chevy Chase Chase was the first to utter the words: “Live from New York, it’s Saturday night!” And he has a long list of post-"SNL” credits, including many commercial successes and his share of flops. He was also the first cast member to leave the show. Initially hired as a writer, he was known on “SNL” for “Weekend Update,” his bumbling President Gerald Ford, his pratfalls in general and his feuds with cast members. Chase was replaced in the middle of the second season by Bill Murray. Years later (2013), Chase exited TV’s “Community” during the fourth season amid complaints about racial slurs directed at fellow cast member Donald Glover. In between “SNL” and that moment, Chase worked a lot, at least for a time. Steve Martin, Chevy Chase, and Martin Short appear at the “Three Amigos!” film premiere in 1986. (AP Photo/Frankie Ziths, File) There were two “Fletch” movies. There was “Caddyshack” and a poorly-received sequel. There was “The Three Amigos!” There were five “Vacation” movies, though his appearance in the last one (in 2015) was a cameo. Chase’s first hit was “Foul Play” with Goldie Hawn in 1978. He tried his hand at a late-night talk show, “The Chevy Chase Show,” on Fox in 1993. It was canceled after six weeks. Among his awards: A writing Emmy for “SNL” in 1976, a performance Emmy on the show the same year and a shared writing Emmy for “The Paul Simon Special” in 1977. Chase put out a biography in 2007, “I’m Chevy Chase ... and You’re Not,” named for his famous catchphrase as anchor of “Weekend Update.” In his book, he detailed childhood physical abuse at the hands of his mother and stepfather, John Cederquist — both of whom are dead. Now 80, Chase has taken in recent years to hosting screenings with audience Q&As for “National Lampoon’s Christmas Vacation,” the most enduring movie in that franchise. He also makes chicken sounds and posts fan meetups and family gatherings on TikTok, where he has 1.2 million followers. Laraine Newman arrives at the premiere “Live from New York!” in 2015. (Photo by Richard Shotwell/Invision/AP, File) Laraine Newman She left “SNL” in 1980 after portraying Connie Conehead, Valley Girl stewardess Sherry and ditzy public access TV co-host Christie Christina. She was also a recurring reporter on “Weekend Update.” Newman has spoken openly about her struggles with depression and drug addiction during that time. She got sober in 1987. Before leaving “SNL,” Newman appeared in the 1978 film “American Hot Wax.” Steady film, TV and voice work followed through the 1980s into the 2000s. She was the antagonist in the 1991 comedy “Problem Child 2” and appeared in 1993’s “Coneheads” as Connie’s Aunt Laarta. Newman, 72, appeared in episodes of “Friends,” “3rd Rock from the Sun,” “7th Heaven,” “Laverne & Shirley” and “St. Elsewhere,” and in the 1994 live action “Flintstones” film. She lent her voice to several animated hit films, including “Wall-E,” “Up,” “Toy Story 3" and “Tangled.” And she has worked as a magazine writer and editor. In 2021, she put out “May You Live in Interesting Times,” an audio memoir. Fun fact: After high school graduation, Newman studied mime in Paris with Marcel Marceau. In 2017, with the rest of “SNL’s” original cast, she was inducted into the Television Academy Hall of Fame. Dan Aykroyd in 2010. (AP Photo/Sarah Hummert, File) Dan Aykroyd When he wasn’t bleeding out as Julia Child or declaring, “Jane, you ignorant slut!” on “Weekend Update,” Aykroyd swagged with Steve Martin as one of two wild and crazy guys, and led the Conehead family as patriarch Beldar. And he lent so much more to “SNL” before leaving in 1979, including as half of The Blues Brothers and impersonations of talk show host Tom Snyder, Rod Serling and two presidents: Nixon and Carter. With Belushi, his close friend, and backed by legit players, the bluesy and soulful brothers caught on as a band. They played gigs and released a multimillion-selling album, “Briefcase Full of Blues.” His post-"SNL” work has taken him even higher. He and Belushi had a smash with “The Blues Brothers” film. Hit after hit followed: “Neighbors” in 1981, “Trading Places” in 1983 and the 1984 “Ghostbusters” that launched a franchise (Aykroyd and Harold Ramis wrote the first two). He also appeared in “1941.” Aykroyd, 72, wrote and narrated a recent audio documentary, “Blues Brothers: The Arc of Gratitude.” Dan Aykroyd in 2014. (Photo by Evan Agostini/Invision/AP, File) In 1985, Aykroyd co-wrote and starred with Chase in “Spies Like Us,” directed by Landis. Aykroyd earned a supporting actor Oscar nomination for 1989’s “Driving Miss Daisy.” The ‘90s weren’t so kind. There were many flops, including his directorial debut in 1991, “Nothing but Trouble” starring Demi Moore, Chase, John Candy and Aykroyd with a grisly prosthetic face. A bright spot was the acclaimed “Grosse Pointe Blank,” in which he played a rival hitman to star John Cusack. With Hard Rock Cafe co-founder Isaac Tigrett, Aykroyd co-founded House of Blues, a chain of live music halls and restaurants that became a division of Live Nation in 2006. Jane Curtin Jane Curtin, John Ritter, and Tyne Daly pose backstage at the 1984 Emmy Awards. (AP Photo, File) Curtin left “SNL,” in 1980, after five seasons. She was a master of deadpan, often playing the straight woman off such outsized performers as Belushi and Radner. A regular on “Weekend Update,” she was also known for the Coneheads sketches as matriarch Prymaat and as Enid Loopner with fellow nerds Radner and Murray. Curtin, 76, has spoken about being bothered by the drug-fueled lifestyles of some of her castmates. She won two Emmys for her 1980s sitcom “Kate & Allie.” She later starred as Dr. Mary Albright in the hit series “3rd Rock from the Sun” (1996-2001). Her post-"SNL” work stayed mainly on television, including some busts like the 1990 sitcom “Working it Out.” It was canceled after 13 episodes. With Fred Savage, she appeared in the sitcom “Crumbs” in 2006. It was canceled four months later. There was some Broadway work: Miss Proserpine Garnett in “Candida,” “Love Letters” and the 2002 revival of “Our Town” that marked Paul Newman’s return to Broadway after 38 years. Garrett Morris Civil Rights activist and politician Julian Bond, left, appears with Garrett Morris during a rehearsal in 1977. (AP Photo/Dave Pickoff, File) Initially hired as a writer, he was the oldest on “SNL’s” first cast at 37. He came to the show after 17 years as a singer and arranger with Harry Belafonte, as an actor in plays and musicals, as a playwright and as a civil rights activist who helped desegregate Actor’s Equity. Morris was raised in New Orleans by his grandmother and Baptist minister grandfather, spending his childhood singing in the church choir. He later became a Buddhist after moving to New York, where he was homeless for a time well before “SNL.” Morris, 87, trained at The Juilliard School. Belafonte gave him his first professional break. Morris performed with the Harry Belafonte Singers for 10 years, starting when he was just 22. He remained on “SNL” until 1980. He was known for his character Chico Escuela, the Dominican baseball player whose catchphrase, “Baseball has been berry berry good to me,” caught on in pop culture. He also performed as the shouting interpreter in the “News for the Hard of Hearing” segments and did impersonations of Idi Amin, James Brown, Sammy Davis, Jr., Bob Marley and Muhammad Ali. Morris once sang a Mozart aria on “SNL” as the musical guest. He also sang a Schubert composition on the show. In 1994, Morris was shot and seriously wounded in an attempted holdup in Los Angeles. In the ‘80s, Morris appeared in a string of horror films. Later, he was a regular on the series “2 Broke Girls” and performed on TV comedies “Martin,” “The Jamie Foxx Show” and “The Wayans Brothers.” He also appeared on “Married with Children,” “Family Guy” and “The Jeffersons.” He competed with his family on “Celebrity Family Feud” in 2016, appeared on “This is Us” in 2018 and on a “Black Lady Sketch Show” in 2019. Morris also has a long list of film credits: Sidney Lumet’s “The Anderson Tapes,” the classic “Cooley High,” “The Longshots,” “Pawn Shop” and Marvel’s “Ant-Man” included. LEANNE ITALIE Italie’s work spans the lifestyles and entertainment space, from fashion and family to film, music and theater. She is based in New York and has worked across the United States for The Associated Press. twitter instagram facebook mailto Most read US pulls last aircraft carrier in Asia as Trump focuses on Iran and the Western Hemisphere 5 MIN READ 646 Top US commander visits aircraft carrier, Gaza talks in Egypt and other Mideast news 4 MIN READ 332 Police have arrested a 19-year-old in connection with Virginia State University shooting 2 MIN READ 566 Hurricane Lala skirts Hawaii’s Big Island without making landfall as heavy wind, rain lash region 3 MIN READ 19 The buck stops somewhere else: A look at Trump’s tendency to avoid blame when things go awry 6 MIN READ 1113 The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct SECTIONS ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog Copyright 2026 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. twitter instagram facebook