Roland Dumas, former French foreign affairs minister and Constitutional Council president, has died Date: Loading date... Time: Loading time... Menu Menu Go Back to the HomePage Le Monde Go Back to the HomePage Le Monde FR EN Your account Your account Subscribe Your account Your account Subscribe Sign in Sign in Sign in Go Back to the HomePage Le Monde Go Back to the HomePage Le Monde Menu Menu Search Search Previous article Summer Reads Climate change World Europe France Environment Opinion M Magazine French Delights Next article Update payment details Update Payment details Your account Subscription paused Subscription suspended Partager votre abonnement Other offers Your selection Your newsletters Your notifications Our apps The print The print Subscriber Other offers Subscribers events Subscriber Other offers Le Monde Games Subscriber Other offers Le Monde in French Le Monde in French Subscriber Other offers Subscribe Help Log out Close the main menu Go Back to the HomePage Le Monde Go Back to the HomePage Le Monde FR EN Search an article Summer Reads Climate change Middle East War in Ukraine United States Donald Trump Iran Fires FIFA 2027 French presidential election Jeffrey Epstein See more of current news World All articles Europe Americas United States Africa Middle East Asia and Pacific Geopolitics Diplomacy Letters from Middle East War in Ukraine United States Donald Trump Iran Jeffrey Epstein Europe All articles European Union France United Kingdom Russia Germany Italy France All articles French Politics Emmanuel Macron French Education French Justice Paris 2027 French presidential election Environment All articles Climate Energy Biodiversity Natural disasters Oceans Water Pollution Pesticides PFAS Climate change Fires Economy All articles World economy French economy Business Agriculture Tourism Transport Management Employment M Magazine All articles Lifestyle Food Fashion Travel Culture All articles Art Exhibitions Cinema TV shows Music Performing Arts Books Photography Architecture French Delights Global issues All articles Abortion Antisemitism Child abuse Counterterrorism Disabilities Drug use and trafficking Human Rights Immigration LGBTQ+ rights Organized Crime Pornography Religion Sexual violence Women's Rights Pixels All articles Artificial Intelligence Crypto Disinformation Social Media Sports All articles Football Tennis Cycling Rugby Basketball FIFA Science Health Intimacy Les Décodeurs Our Times Obituaries Religion Opinion All articles Editorials Columns Op-Eds Analysis Le Monde’s app Other formats Video investigations Newsletters Cookie preferences Close the services menu The holder of your subscription has paused their plan for one month, until #suspension_date#. You no longer have access to their benefits. Your subscription has been paused for one month, until #suspension_date#. If you’d like to resume it earlier, please contact our customer service team . Obituaries Obituaries Obituaries Roland Dumas, former French foreign affairs minister and Constitutional Council president, has died The son of a Resistance member and a long-time close associate of François Mitterrand, this flamboyant and controversial lawyer was forced to leave the limelight in 2000, due to his involvement in a scandal. He died at age 101 on July 3, 2024. By Bertrand Le Gendre and Raphaëlle Bacqué Published on July 3, 2024, at 6:28 pm (Paris), updated on July 3, 2024, at 6:42 pm 13 min read Lire en français Subscribers only Make us preferred on Google share Share on Messenger Share on Facebook Share by email Share on Linkedin Copy link Roland Dumas, minister of foreign affairs, in his Paris office on May 19, 1988. FRÉDÉRIC REGLAIN / /GAMMA-RAPHO Recklessly fond of manipulation, women and money, Roland Dumas was a charmer. He also had an understated intelligence and irresistible interpersonal skills, along with the ability to get out of the bad situations his scheming led him into. When François Mitterrand appointed him president of the Constitutional Council, two months before leaving the Elysée Palace in 1995, he was greeted in the lofty institution by murmurs of disapproval. "One box isn't ticked, the one for morality," insisted the guardians of the Constitution. The former minister of foreign affairs did nothing to refute them. Less than five years later, he was forced to resign, caught up in the fraud scandal of the petroleum company Elf, surrounded by right and left-wing wheeler-dealers and high-level courtesans. Nonetheless, the bel canto fan continued to turn up at Opera premieres, with his Legion of Honor ribbon looking like a drop of blood on the lapel of his suit. In recent years, before his death at the age of 101 on Wednesday, July 3, as first reported by Le Figaro , he congratulated himself on having gone through life like on a rollercoaster. "The opposite of an ordinary life," he used to say when receiving guests at his home, in the heart of the Ile Saint-Louis in Paris, where he lived in the building where sculptor Camille Claudel had resided and where he himself collected paintings, engravings and old books, with his lawyer's robe hanging in the entrance. You have 92.25% of this article left to read. The rest is for subscribers only. Subscribe now to read the full story. Your credit card has expired. Update your payment information to keep your subscription running. Update Payment details Subscribe now to read the full story. Your payment failed. Update your payment information to keep your subscription running Update Payment details Subscribe now to read the full story. Already a subscriber ? Sign in Subscribe to continue reading. Get unlimited access to Le Monde in English €2.49/month, cancel anytime Subscribe to continue reading. Get unlimited access to Le Monde in English €2.49/month, cancel anytime Subscribe now Card Apple Pay Google Pay PayPal Sections World French politics France Les Décodeurs Sports Environment Science Campus Le Monde Africa Pixels Health Obituaries Archives About Us Le Monde Syndication Le Monde for hotels French Focus Rugby World Cup 2023 Tour de France 2023 Paris Olympics 2024 Emmanuel Macron Opinion Editorials Columns Analysis Subscription Sign up Sign In Le Monde in English Sign up to receive our daily selection of "Le Monde" articles translated into English. Sign up Informations légales le Monde Mentions légales Conditions générales Charte du Groupe Politique de confidentialité Aide (FAQ) Le Monde Legal informations Legal Information Group Policy Privacy Policy Cookie Preferences Terms & Conditions FAQ Follow Le Monde Facebook Youtube Instagram TikTok Reddit RSS feed