NBA approves sale of Boston Celtics at record valuation | NBA.com Navigation Toggle Home Tickets 2026-27 Preseason Schedule 2026-27 Regular Season Schedule National TV Games League Pass Schedule Emirates NBA Cup Schedule Key Dates Tap To Watch Featured NBA TV Home Top Stories Hall of Fame Summer League Draft Key Dates Features Events Transactions History More Draft Home Draft Board All Picks: 1-60 Prospects Teams News Trade Tracker Stats Home Dunk Score Inside the Game Players Teams Leaders Stats 101 Cume Stats Lineups Tool Media Central Game Stats Draft Quick Links Contact Us 2025-26 Regular Season Standings Division Conference Emirates NBA Cup Preseason Atlantic Boston Celtics Brooklyn Nets New York Knicks Philadelphia 76ers Toronto Raptors Central Chicago Bulls Cleveland Cavaliers Detroit Pistons Indiana Pacers Milwaukee Bucks Southeast Atlanta Hawks Charlotte Hornets Miami Heat Orlando Magic Washington Wizards Northwest Denver Nuggets Minnesota Timberwolves Oklahoma City Thunder Portland Trail Blazers Utah Jazz Pacific Golden State Warriors LA Clippers Los Angeles Lakers Phoenix Suns Sacramento Kings Southwest Dallas Mavericks Houston Rockets Memphis Grizzlies New Orleans Pelicans San Antonio Spurs League Roster Player Stats Starting Lineups Transactions Pronunciation Guide Awards Free Agent Tracker Home Full Court Guess Rank IQ Player Path Trivia Hoop Connect Fantasy Home Bracket Challenge Play Yahoo Fantasy FantasyPros Tools NBA Pick'Em NBABet FanDuel DFS DraftKings DFS Play Sorare NBA Authorized Gaming Operators NBA Store Shop Knicks Jerseys Men Women Kids Custom Shop Hardwood Classics Hats Footwear Auctions NBA Game Worn NYC Store NBA Photo Store NBATickets.com Official Tickets by Ticketmaster NBA Experiences NBA G League WNBA NBA 2K League Basketball Africa League NBA Cup Hall of Fame Free Agency Games Schedule Watch News Draft Stats Standings Teams Players NBA Play Fantasy League Pass Store Tickets Affiliates Home Tickets News Home Top Stories Hall of Fame Summer League Draft Key Dates Features Starting 5 Newsletter Power Rankings Trending Topics Rookie Ladder MVP Ladder Events Hall of Fame: Class of 2026 2026 Draft 2026 Playoffs 2026 All-Star Transactions History More Writer Archive NBA Awards 2025-26 NBA Guide NBA Pioneers Trade Tracker Future Starts Now NBA Official Podcasts Learn The Game Top Stories NBA approves sale of Boston Celtics at record valuation Boston's valuation at $6.1 billion is the highest in the history of U.S. pro sports, and substantially more than the Suns' $4 billion sale in 2023. Associated Press August 13, 2025 10:37 PM Boston’s $6.1 sale valuation reflects its storied history with 18 championships and one of the NBA’s most engaged fan bases. BOSTON (AP) — The NBA on Wednesday unanimously approved the sale of the Boston Celtics to a group led by private equity mogul Bill Chisholm, a deal that values the franchise at more than $6.1 billion — the largest ever for an American professional sports team. The league said the transaction is expected to close shortly. When it does, Chisholm will take ownership of at least 51% of the team, with full control coming by 2028 at a price that could bring the total value to $7.3 billion. The previous record for a U.S. sports franchise was the $6.05 billion paid for the NFL’s Washington Commanders in 2023. The record price for an NBA team was the $4 billion mortgage firm owner Mat Ishbia paid for the Phoenix Suns in 2023 . A Massachusetts native and graduate of Dartmouth College and Penn’s Wharton School of business, Chisholm is the managing partner of California-based Symphony Technology Group. The new ownership group also includes Boston businessmen Rob Hale, who is a current Celtics shareholder, and Bruce Beal Jr. Wyc Grousbeck led the ownership group that bought the team in 2002 for $360 million and presided over NBA championships in 2008 and ‘24. The franchise’s 18 NBA titles is a record. Chisholm outbid at least two other groups, one led by previous Celtics minority partner Steve Pagliuca. Pagliuca has since announced plans to but the WNBA’s Connecticut Sun for $325 million and move them to Boston, but the women’s league has balked at the deal . Related Celtics sign coach Mazzulla to extension In 3 seasons with Boston, Joe Mazzula has gone 182-64 in the regular season and led the team to the 2024 NBA title. Tatum at Pats camp without walking boot Boston's star, who had Achilles surgery in May, continues a rehab that is expected to keep him out most of next season. Celtics trade Niang, add big man Boucher The Niang trade allows Boston the flexibility to remain below the second penalty apron after adding Boucher. Celtics' Holiday officially dealt to Blazers Boston lightens its tax bill by sending the point guard of its 2023-24 championship team to Portland. Related Celtics sign coach Mazzulla to extension In 3 seasons with Boston, Joe Mazzula has gone 182-64 in the regular season and led the team to the 2024 NBA title. Tatum at Pats camp without walking boot Boston's star, who had Achilles surgery in May, continues a rehab that is expected to keep him out most of next season. Celtics trade Niang, add big man Boucher The Niang trade allows Boston the flexibility to remain below the second penalty apron after adding Boucher. Celtics' Holiday officially dealt to Blazers Boston lightens its tax bill by sending the point guard of its 2023-24 championship team to Portland. Latest Tributes, laughs highlight Enshrinement Ceremony Warm memories of Don Nelson and Candace Parker's bond with her 'brother' take their spot from the Hall’s big weekend. A trailblazing women’s class enters Hall of Fame Candace Parker, Elena Delle Donne, Chamique Holdsclaw and the 1996 Olympic women’s basketball team headline an iconic class of women joining the Hall of Fame. Amar'e remembers Knicks days at HOF Gala Several members of the Class of 2026 share their feelings about candidates worthy of Hall induction who haven’t yet made it. Report: Hornets add Schröder, trade Mann to Cavs Charlotte and Cleveland reportedly agree to swap guards in the mid-August deal. The Athletic: D’Antoni's style revolutionized the NBA Has any coach in any pro sport this century shaken up the league the way D’Antoni did? Numbers to know about 2026-27 schedule A look inside the planning and structure required to fit 1,230 regular-season games into a roughly 6-month window for 2026-27. NBA Organization NBA ID Benefits NBA Official NBA Careers NBA Fan Code of Conduct NBA Social Impact NBA Total Health NBA Cares Jr. NBA / Jr. WNBA NBA Foundation Social Justice Coalition Across The League NBA Communications Lockervision NBA Transactions Shop Global Stores NYC Store NBA Auctions NBA Photostore Subscriptions League Pass Customer Support