The Row News, Collections, Fashion Shows, Fashion Week Reviews, and More | Vogue Skip to main content The Row “Everything Mary-Kate and Ashley do turns to gold,” The Row’s then–production manager (now vice president of sourcing and production), Joe Karban, commented in The New York Times in 2009. “It’s much like the old days at Polo,” the veteran continued. “The kids on the team are really passionate about making clothes. How do you set a proper sleeve? How does a fabric perform? It’s the art of making clothes as opposed to making everything cookie-cutter.” Roughly four decades after Ralph Lauren got started with what’s been called “the perfect tie,” Ashley and her twin sister, Mary-Kate, cofounded The Row with an idea for the perfect T-shirt. And just as Lauren dubbed his New York–born label Polo, after a terribly British sport, Mary-Kate and Ashley named their Garment District baby The Row, deliberately sidestepping the cliché of the celebrity-founded line to invoke the high-class quality of London’s Savile Row, the street known for bespoke men’s tailoring. But what drives The Row’s surprising success is the intimate relationship between Mary-Kate’s creative yin (“She has spirit, taste, and modernity,” designer Karl Lagerfeld noted in Vogue . “She mixes Chanel in her own way”) and Ashley’s entrepreneurial yang (when she was in her teens, the older-by-less-than-five-minutes alpha twin named Martha Stewart as an idol in Vanity Fair “because of, like, everything she’s created within her brand”). With no formal training, the young designers learned their craft hands-on from years spent on the sets of TV series, from Full House to Two of a Kind , scrutinizing the wardrobe department’s handiwork in tailoring garments for their petite frames. “There would be five or six racks of clothes there,” Mary-Kate told Vogue in 2011 , “and they cut them down to fit us—even Chanel.” Fashion’s mini moguls were 10-year-old millionaires, and at 18, took control of Dualstar, the company founded when they were 6 that controls their vast entertainment catalog and growing clothing empire. The Row is the jewel in its diversified crown, a luxurious, high-end label. Covering the contemporary fashion market, they offer a line called Elizabeth and James; and for the mass market, Olsenboye, affordably priced at JCPenney, focuses on the latest tween trends. All The Row Collections Resort 2027 Pre-Fall 2026 Spring 2026 Menswear Spring 2026 Ready-to-Wear Resort 2026 Fall 2025 Menswear Fall 2025 Ready-to-Wear Pre-Fall 2025 Spring 2025 Menswear Spring 2025 Ready-to-Wear Show more Runway Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen’s 40 Best Twinning Beauty Moments By Anna Cafolla Runway From Moody Minimalism to Colorful Caftans, Revisiting the Olsen Twins’ Style Over the Years By Hannah Jackson Runway Is The Row’s New Flip-Flop Heralding a Big Reef Summer? By Max Berlinger Runway Ashley and Mary-Kate Olsen Are Twins, and So Are Their Handbags By Olivia Allen Runway Kendall Jenner Introduces Her New Favorite Brand to Her Old Favorite Brand By Hannah Jackson Runway Carey Mulligan Just Introduced King Charles to Barrel-Leg Trousers By Daniel Rodgers Runway Blackberries, BLTs, Wedges of Cheese: A Brief History of Snacks at the Row By Anna Cafolla Runway Dakota and Elle Fanning Offer Divergent Takes on It Bags By Hannah Jackson Runway Kendall Jenner and Mary-Kate Olsen Stick to Their Own Style Codes for Sushi By Anna Cafolla The latest fashion news, beauty coverage, celebrity style, fashion week updates, culture reviews, and videos on Vogue.com. More from Vogue Newsletter Manage Account Verify Subscription Contact us FAQ About Vogue How We Test Careers Projects Vogue Archive Forces of Fashion Vogue College of Fashion Subscribe See More Stories Fashion Beauty Culture Living Runway Shopping Magazine Gift Guides Best of Sale User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights Accessibility Help Masthead Visual Stories Site Map © 2026 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Vogue may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Fashion & Beauty Select international site United States Adria Arabia Australia Brasil Britain China Czechoslovakia España France Germany Greece Hong Kong India Italia Japan Korea México Nederland Philippines Polska Portugal Scandinavia Singapore Taiwan Thailand Türkiye Ukraine