Michael Jordan selling majority ownership stake in Charlotte Hornets | NBA.com Navigation Toggle Home Tickets 2026-27 Preseason Schedule 2026-27 Regular Season Schedule National TV Games League Pass Schedule Emirates NBA Cup Schedule Key Dates Tap To Watch Featured NBA TV Home Top Stories Hall of Fame Summer League Draft Key Dates Features Events Transactions History More Draft Home Draft Board All Picks: 1-60 Prospects Teams News Trade Tracker Stats Home Dunk Score Inside the Game Players Teams Leaders Stats 101 Cume Stats Lineups Tool Media Central Game Stats Draft Quick Links Contact Us 2025-26 Regular Season Standings Division Conference Emirates NBA Cup Preseason Atlantic Boston Celtics Brooklyn Nets New York Knicks Philadelphia 76ers Toronto Raptors Central Chicago Bulls Cleveland Cavaliers Detroit Pistons Indiana Pacers Milwaukee Bucks Southeast Atlanta Hawks Charlotte Hornets Miami Heat Orlando Magic Washington Wizards Northwest Denver Nuggets Minnesota Timberwolves Oklahoma City Thunder Portland Trail Blazers Utah Jazz Pacific Golden State Warriors LA Clippers Los Angeles Lakers Phoenix Suns Sacramento Kings Southwest Dallas Mavericks Houston Rockets Memphis Grizzlies New Orleans Pelicans San Antonio Spurs League Roster Player Stats Starting Lineups Transactions Pronunciation Guide Awards Free Agent Tracker Home Full Court Guess Rank IQ Player Path Trivia Hoop Connect Fantasy Home Bracket Challenge Play Yahoo Fantasy FantasyPros Tools NBA Pick'Em NBABet FanDuel DFS DraftKings DFS Play Sorare NBA Authorized Gaming Operators NBA Store Shop Knicks Jerseys Men Women Kids Custom Shop Hardwood Classics Hats Footwear Auctions NBA Game Worn NYC Store NBA Photo Store NBATickets.com Official Tickets by Ticketmaster NBA Experiences NBA G League WNBA NBA 2K League Basketball Africa League NBA Cup Hall of Fame Free Agency Games Schedule Watch News Draft Stats Standings Teams Players NBA Play Fantasy League Pass Store Tickets Affiliates Home Tickets News Home Top Stories Hall of Fame Summer League Draft Key Dates Features Starting 5 Newsletter Power Rankings Trending Topics Rookie Ladder MVP Ladder Events Hall of Fame: Class of 2026 2026 Draft 2026 Playoffs 2026 All-Star Transactions History More Writer Archive NBA Awards 2025-26 NBA Guide NBA Pioneers Trade Tracker Future Starts Now NBA Official Podcasts Learn The Game Top Stories Michael Jordan selling majority ownership stake in Charlotte Hornets Once the sale is complete, Michael Jordan plans to keep a minority stake and maintain a presence with the franchise. Steve Reed and Tim Reynolds | The Associated Press Updated on June 17, 2023 5:48 AM Michael Jordan plans to keep a minority stake in the Hornets, the team he bought in 2010 for about $275 million. CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) — Michael Jordan is finalizing a deal to sell the majority share of the Charlotte Hornets, the franchise announced Friday, leaving the 30-team NBA without any Black majority ownership. Jordan is selling to a group led by Gabe Plotkin and Rick Schnall, the Hornets said. Plotkin has been a minority stakeholder in the Hornets since 2019. Schnall has been a minority owner of the Atlanta Hawks since 2015 and is in the process of selling his investment in that team. It’s not clear how long the process of selling will take to be finalized by the NBA’s Board of Governors. Jordan plans to keep a minority stake in the Hornets, the team he bought in 2010 for about $275 million. Jordan’s decision to sell ends his unsuccessful 13-year run overseeing the organization. Read the full release on https://t.co/BzkRIrrehy . 🔗 https://t.co/roYUH9ilgI pic.twitter.com/N17fYc0HBp — Charlotte Hornets (@hornets) June 16, 2023 “In the same way that it’s wonderful that one of our greatest, Michael Jordan, could become the principal governor of a team, he has the absolute right to sell at the same time,” NBA Commissioner Adam Silver said earlier this month at the NBA Finals. “Values have gone up a lot since he bought that team, so that is his decision.” In that same news conference at the Finals, Silver said the Board of Governors are focused on diversity in ownership groups. “I would love to have better representation in terms of principal governors,” Silver said. “It’s a marketplace. It’s something that if we were expanding that the league would be in a position to focus directly on that, but in individual team transactions, the market takes us where we are.” The sale price was not immediately announced; ESPN, citing sources, said the franchise was being valued at $3 billion. The most recent sale of an NBA team came when Mat Ishbia bought the Phoenix Suns, a deal that when struck in December valued that franchise at $4 billion. Jordan declined comment on the sale through his spokesperson, Estee Portnoy. For as great as Jordan was on the court — national champion at North Carolina, two-time Olympic gold medalist, six-time NBA champion and in the never-ending conversation for best player ever — the Hornets never reached a championship level during his time as the owner. Charlotte went 423-600 in his 13 seasons in charge, the 26th-best record over that span. It never won a playoff series in that time and hasn’t even been to the postseason in the last seven seasons. Other members of the new potential Hornets ownership group — pending the approval — are recording artist J. Cole, Dan Sundheim, Ian Loring, country music singer-songwriter Eric Church, Chris Shumway and several local Charlotte investors, including Amy Levine Dawson and Damian Mills. Along with the Hornets, HSE ownership includes the NBA G League’s Greensboro Swarm and NBA 2K League’s Hornets Venom GT, as well as managing and operating the Spectrum Center, each of which is included as part of the sale. When Jordan, who grew up in Wilmington, North Carolina, purchased majority ownership in the team, it created a great amount of buzz. But the Hornets’ struggles and inability to turn things around bothered Jordan. The first inclination that he was looking to get out of the NBA ownership business came in 2020, when he sold a minority stake to Plotkin and Sundheim. The Hornets are coming off an injury-plagued 27-55 season and hold the No. 2 pick in the NBA draft. Victor Wembanyama is expected to go first overall on Thursday night, leaving Charlotte with the choice of either G League star guard Scoot Henderson or Alabama’s Brandon Miller. Charlotte’s biggest star is LaMelo Ball, and the team still has some decent foundational parts to build around including Terry Rozier, Gordon Hayward, P.J. Washington and Mark Williams, the team’s starting center who played well last year as a rookie. Jordan was often criticized as an owner for not spending enough in free agency to make the Hornets competitive. He took over a team in 2010 that had won 44 games the year before but had been swept by the Orlando Magic in the first round. It went downhill from there. Charlotte — still the Bobcats at the time — was 34-48 in its first year under Jordan and then an NBA-worst 7-59 the following year. But despite the abysmal record, Charlotte failed to land the No. 1 pick in the NBA draft lottery and Anthony Davis. Charlotte got back to the playoffs in 2013-14 but was swept by the Miami Heat. Two years later, the Hornets won 48 games but lost again to the Heat in the first round, this time in seven games. In the seven years since, Jordan’s Hornets have had only one winning season and have twice exited early in the play-in tournament as the 10 seed. Charlotte has not won a playoff series since the 2001-02 season and has never won an NBA championship. Related LaMelo (ankle) expects to be ready for training camp Charlotte's star point guard underwent season-ending surgery on his broken right ankle in early March. Jordan’s ‘Dream Team’ jacket heading to auction The jacket is estimated to receive offers anywhere from $1 million to $3 million. Michael Jordan sells minority stake in Hornets Sports & Entertainment Gabe Plotkin, Daniel Sundheim set to join HSE as partners 10 remaining teams yet to win a title There are 10 teams awaiting their first championship. Related LaMelo (ankle) expects to be ready for training camp Charlotte's star point guard underwent season-ending surgery on his broken right ankle in early March. Jordan’s ‘Dream Team’ jacket heading to auction The jacket is estimated to receive offers anywhere from $1 million to $3 million. Michael Jordan sells minority stake in Hornets Sports & Entertainment Gabe Plotkin, Daniel Sundheim set to join HSE as partners 10 remaining teams yet to win a title There are 10 teams awaiting their first championship. Latest Tributes, laughs highlight Enshrinement Ceremony Warm memories of Don Nelson and Candace Parker's bond with her 'brother' take their spot from the Hall’s big weekend. A trailblazing women’s class enters Hall of Fame Candace Parker, Elena Delle Donne, Chamique Holdsclaw and the 1996 Olympic women’s basketball team headline an iconic class of women joining the Hall of Fame. Amar'e remembers Knicks days at HOF Gala Several members of the Class of 2026 share their feelings about candidates worthy of Hall induction who haven’t yet made it. Report: Hornets add Schröder, trade Mann to Cavs Charlotte and Cleveland reportedly agree to swap guards in the mid-August deal. The Athletic: D’Antoni's style revolutionized the NBA Has any coach in any pro sport this century shaken up the league the way D’Antoni did? Numbers to know about 2026-27 schedule A look inside the planning and structure required to fit 1,230 regular-season games into a roughly 6-month window for 2026-27. NBA Organization NBA ID Benefits NBA Official NBA Careers NBA Fan Code of Conduct NBA Social Impact NBA Total Health NBA Cares Jr. NBA / Jr. WNBA NBA Foundation Social Justice Coalition Across The League NBA Communications Lockervision NBA Transactions Shop Global Stores NYC Store NBA Auctions NBA Photostore Subscriptions League Pass Customer Support