Michael Jordan’s sale of majority ownership of Hornets finalized | NBA.com Navigation Toggle Home Tickets 2026-27 Preseason Schedule 2026-27 Regular Season Schedule National TV Games League Pass Schedule Emirates NBA Cup Schedule Key Dates Tap To Watch Featured NBA TV Home Top Stories Hall of Fame Summer League Draft Key Dates Features Events Transactions History More Draft Home Draft Board All Picks: 1-60 Prospects Teams News Trade Tracker Stats Home Dunk Score Inside the Game Players Teams Leaders Stats 101 Cume Stats Lineups Tool Media Central Game Stats Draft Quick Links Contact Us 2025-26 Regular Season Standings Division Conference Emirates NBA Cup Preseason Atlantic Boston Celtics Brooklyn Nets New York Knicks Philadelphia 76ers Toronto Raptors Central Chicago Bulls Cleveland Cavaliers Detroit Pistons Indiana Pacers Milwaukee Bucks Southeast Atlanta Hawks Charlotte Hornets Miami Heat Orlando Magic Washington Wizards Northwest Denver Nuggets Minnesota Timberwolves Oklahoma City Thunder Portland Trail Blazers Utah Jazz Pacific Golden State Warriors LA Clippers Los Angeles Lakers Phoenix Suns Sacramento Kings Southwest Dallas Mavericks Houston Rockets Memphis Grizzlies New Orleans Pelicans San Antonio Spurs League Roster Player Stats Starting Lineups Transactions Pronunciation Guide Awards Free Agent Tracker Home Full Court Guess Rank IQ Player Path Trivia Hoop Connect Fantasy Home Bracket Challenge Play Yahoo Fantasy FantasyPros Tools NBA Pick'Em NBABet FanDuel DFS DraftKings DFS Play Sorare NBA Authorized Gaming Operators NBA Store Shop Knicks Jerseys Men Women Kids Custom Shop Hardwood Classics Hats Footwear Auctions NBA Game Worn NYC Store NBA Photo Store NBATickets.com Official Tickets by Ticketmaster NBA Experiences NBA G League WNBA NBA 2K League Basketball Africa League NBA Cup Hall of Fame Free Agency Games Schedule Watch News Draft Stats Standings Teams Players NBA Play Fantasy League Pass Store Tickets Affiliates Home Tickets News Home Top Stories Hall of Fame Summer League Draft Key Dates Features Starting 5 Newsletter Power Rankings Trending Topics Rookie Ladder MVP Ladder Events Hall of Fame: Class of 2026 2026 Draft 2026 Playoffs 2026 All-Star Transactions History More Writer Archive NBA Awards 2025-26 NBA Guide NBA Pioneers Trade Tracker Future Starts Now NBA Official Podcasts Learn The Game Top Stories Michael Jordan’s sale of majority ownership of Hornets finalized Gabe Plotkin and Rick Schnall will assume the majority stake of the Hornets. Steve Reed | The Associated Press August 3, 2023 3:13 PM Michael Jordan, who owned the Hornets for the past 13 years, will remain with the team as a minority owner. CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) — The sale of the majority stake of the Charlotte Hornets from six-time NBA champion Michael Jordan to Gabe Plotkin and Rick Schnall has been finalized, the team announced Thursday . The Hornets planned to introduce Plotkin and Schnall at a news conference later in the day. Jordan, who has owned the team for the past 13 years, said in a news release that it was a “tremendous honor” to own the Hornets but didn’t give an explanation for why he sold the franchise. OFFICIAL: The sale of the majority stake in the Charlotte Hornets from Michael Jordan to a group led by Gabe Plotkin and Rick Schnall has been finalized. — Charlotte Hornets (@hornets) August 3, 2023 He will remain on as a minority owner. “I’m proud of all that the organization accomplished: the exciting on-court moments, the return of the Hornets name, Charlotte hosting the 2019 NBA All-Star Game and HSE (Hornets Sports and Entertainment) becoming a true pillar of this community,” Jordan said. “Through the years, the unwavering commitment, passion and loyalty of our Hornets fans has been incredible. As I transition into a minority ownership role, I’m thrilled to be able to pass the reins to two successful, innovative and strategic leaders in Gabe and Rick.” Jordan added: “I know the Hornets organization is in great hands moving forward. I’m excited about the future of the team and will continue to support the organization and the community in my new role in the years ahead.” The Hornets never won a playoff series under Jordan and haven’t been to the postseason in the last seven seasons, the longest drought in the NBA. A message from MJ to Buzz City ✉️💜 — Charlotte Hornets (@hornets) August 3, 2023 “We want to thank Michael for this opportunity, as well as his support throughout this process,” Plotkin and Schnall said in a joint statement. “During his ownership, he brought stability to the Hornets franchise, achieved many business milestones, reconnected and reinvested in the Charlotte community and has the organization positioned for greater success. We look forward to building upon this success in the years to come.” They said their vision is to take the Hornets to the “next level,” both on and off the court. “We will look to build a highly competitive basketball team, develop innovative business practices, give back to our community and connect with our fans,” the new owners said. “We plan to further invest in the team, the facilities and the fan experience, with the goal of delivering a winner to our fans throughout the Carolinas. We are confident that our successful business backgrounds and our previous experience as NBA minority owners will be beneficial as we shape the future of the franchise as a best-in-class organization.” Plotkin and Schnall will serve as co-chairmen of HSE and will rotate the team’s governorship every five years, beginning with Schnall. Schnall has been a minority owner of the Atlanta Hawks and also has served as the alternate governor on the NBA Board of Governors since 2015. He was involved in various aspects of the Hawks’ team-building process as well as the renovations to State Farm Arena. He is co-president of Clayton, Dubilier & Rice LLC, where he has worked for 27 years. Plotkin will serve as co-chairman & alternate governor. He originally acquired a minority stake in the Hornets in 2019. He has been an alternate governor on the NBA Board of Governors since 2019. He is the founder and chief investment officer of Tallwoods Capital LLC. The Hornets’ new ownership group also includes Chris Shumway, Dan Sundheim, Ian Loring, Andrew Schwartzberg, Dyal Home Court Partners, North Carolina natives recording artist J. Cole and country music singer-songwriter Eric Church, and several local Charlotte investors, including Amy Levine Dawson and Damian Mills, among others. Related Reports: NBA approves Jordan's sale of Hornets Michael Jordan's run as an NBA owner ends as the league's Board of Governors reportedly approve his sale of the Hornets. LaMelo signs 5-year extension with Hornets Guard LaMelo Ball will receive a reported 5-year, $260 million extension from the Hornets. Hornets' Bridges apologizes as he rejoins team Bridges was sentenced to 3 years of probation for a felony charge of domestic violence. Hornets re-sign forward Bridges to contract Bridges will be eligible to become an unrestricted free agent next summer after signing a $7.9 million qualifying offer from Charlotte. Related Reports: NBA approves Jordan's sale of Hornets Michael Jordan's run as an NBA owner ends as the league's Board of Governors reportedly approve his sale of the Hornets. LaMelo signs 5-year extension with Hornets Guard LaMelo Ball will receive a reported 5-year, $260 million extension from the Hornets. Hornets' Bridges apologizes as he rejoins team Bridges was sentenced to 3 years of probation for a felony charge of domestic violence. Hornets re-sign forward Bridges to contract Bridges will be eligible to become an unrestricted free agent next summer after signing a $7.9 million qualifying offer from Charlotte. Latest Tributes, laughs highlight Enshrinement Ceremony Warm memories of Don Nelson and Candace Parker's bond with her 'brother' take their spot from the Hall’s big weekend. A trailblazing women’s class enters Hall of Fame Candace Parker, Elena Delle Donne, Chamique Holdsclaw and the 1996 Olympic women’s basketball team headline an iconic class of women joining the Hall of Fame. Amar'e remembers Knicks days at HOF Gala Several members of the Class of 2026 share their feelings about candidates worthy of Hall induction who haven’t yet made it. Report: Hornets add Schröder, trade Mann to Cavs Charlotte and Cleveland reportedly agree to swap guards in the mid-August deal. The Athletic: D’Antoni's style revolutionized the NBA Has any coach in any pro sport this century shaken up the league the way D’Antoni did? Numbers to know about 2026-27 schedule A look inside the planning and structure required to fit 1,230 regular-season games into a roughly 6-month window for 2026-27. NBA Organization NBA ID Benefits NBA Official NBA Careers NBA Fan Code of Conduct NBA Social Impact NBA Total Health NBA Cares Jr. NBA / Jr. WNBA NBA Foundation Social Justice Coalition Across The League NBA Communications Lockervision NBA Transactions Shop Global Stores NYC Store NBA Auctions NBA Photostore Subscriptions League Pass Customer Support