Pete McCloskey, congressman who once challenged Nixon, dies at 96 | AP News Menu World SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Top US commander visits aircraft carrier, Gaza talks in Egypt and other Mideast news Athens is cleaning its all-marble Olympic stadium for the first time in more than a century Ukraine launches one of its largest aerial attacks of the war, killing at least 6 people in Russia Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES Teen boy among 6 dead including suspect in Michigan shootings; girl survived Indiana authorities say at least 5 people have died as severe weather crosses the state Miami to decide fate of stunning stadium where speedboats raced and Jimmy Buffett played Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES Republicans won the redistricting competition. Don't tell that to this California congressman Democrats disagree over abolishing or reforming ICE at DNC meeting Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NFL College football MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Golf TOP STORIES Tommy John, namesake for a pioneering elbow surgery that saved his career, dead at 83 Michael Phelps returns poolside with his sons as 8-year-old Beckett eyes swimming Joshua Báez of the Cardinals hits 3 homers in his first 3 at-bats in a historic major league debut Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES Box Office: ‘Spider-Man’ stays on top while two dino movies battle for third Fans de Bonnie Tyler llenan las calles de pueblo galés para su funeral Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Berkshire Hathaway boosted stake in Alphabet, homebuilders in the second quarter Science Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities TOP STORIES Capybaras keep their chill while crashing Brazilian legislature A humpback whale briefly swallows kayaker in Chilean Patagonia — and it's all captured on camera Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Ghana's fantasy coffins are a colorful celebration of life and legacy A driver faces up to $110,000 in fines for speeding on a Swiss street. But he can afford it Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year Be Well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES Bedbugs can cause people to lose sleep — and blood. Here's what to do about them Challenging your brain helps keep it healthy. Here's how to do it Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Photography SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES Diving into the blue sky, watched by the Eiffel Tower AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 How a photographer centered one woman amid the destruction of a Spokane wildfire Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Peru steps up fight against illegal gold mining as activity enters protected Amazon reserve The warming climate is forcing marathons to consider changes to keep runners cool Oppressive heat, high humidity grip much of the US as students start a new school year Health TOP STORIES Obesity drugs show early promise against the hormonal disorder PMOS, giving a suffering family hope Bedbugs can cause people to lose sleep — and blood. Here's what to do about them Trump signs order calling for spacing out childhood vaccines, against medical groups' guidance Challenging your brain helps keep it healthy. Here's how to do it Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Trump's vaccine plan would require millions of individual shots last used decades ago Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Jury finds Instagram and YouTube liable in a landmark social media addiction trial His son died after a sextortion scheme. He's among many parents celebrating the rulings against Meta One Tech Tip: Don't use rice for your device. Here's how to dry out your smartphone Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES Pull up to the window, please, for a glimpse of an American icon: The drive-thru How clocks, calendars and time zones came to be How to test your lawn for grubs and what to do if you find them Religion TOP STORIES Europe's tallest statue of the Virgin Mary is inaugurated in a small Polish village Israel’s Christians rely on faith and allies as they fear rising harassment A look at the history and beliefs behind Japan’s controversial shrine to the war dead Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES Terremoto frente a Indonesia deja al menos 47 muertos y edificios derrumbados Mientras el Talibán cumple 5 años en el poder en Afganistán, la ONU alerta de crisis de derechos Fans de Bonnie Tyler llenan las calles de pueblo galés para su funeral Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct MORE World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Top US commander visits aircraft carrier, Gaza talks in Egypt and other Mideast news Athens is cleaning its all-marble Olympic stadium for the first time in more than a century Ukraine launches one of its largest aerial attacks of the war, killing at least 6 people in Russia Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES Teen boy among 6 dead including suspect in Michigan shootings; girl survived Indiana authorities say at least 5 people have died as severe weather crosses the state Miami to decide fate of stunning stadium where speedboats raced and Jimmy Buffett played Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES Republicans won the redistricting competition. Don't tell that to this California congressman Democrats disagree over abolishing or reforming ICE at DNC meeting Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports NFL College football MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing SECTIONS NFL College football MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Golf TOP STORIES Tommy John, namesake for a pioneering elbow surgery that saved his career, dead at 83 Michael Phelps returns poolside with his sons as 8-year-old Beckett eyes swimming Joshua Báez of the Cardinals hits 3 homers in his first 3 at-bats in a historic major league debut Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES Box Office: ‘Spider-Man’ stays on top while two dino movies battle for third Fans de Bonnie Tyler llenan las calles de pueblo galés para su funeral Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Berkshire Hathaway boosted stake in Alphabet, homebuilders in the second quarter Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities TOP STORIES Capybaras keep their chill while crashing Brazilian legislature A humpback whale briefly swallows kayaker in Chilean Patagonia — and it's all captured on camera Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Ghana's fantasy coffins are a colorful celebration of life and legacy A driver faces up to $110,000 in fines for speeding on a Swiss street. But he can afford it Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES Bedbugs can cause people to lose sleep — and blood. Here's what to do about them Challenging your brain helps keep it healthy. Here's how to do it Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Photography Photo Essays SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES Diving into the blue sky, watched by the Eiffel Tower AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 How a photographer centered one woman amid the destruction of a Spokane wildfire Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Peru steps up fight against illegal gold mining as activity enters protected Amazon reserve The warming climate is forcing marathons to consider changes to keep runners cool Oppressive heat, high humidity grip much of the US as students start a new school year Health TOP STORIES Obesity drugs show early promise against the hormonal disorder PMOS, giving a suffering family hope Bedbugs can cause people to lose sleep — and blood. Here's what to do about them Trump signs order calling for spacing out childhood vaccines, against medical groups' guidance Challenging your brain helps keep it healthy. Here's how to do it Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Trump's vaccine plan would require millions of individual shots last used decades ago Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Jury finds Instagram and YouTube liable in a landmark social media addiction trial His son died after a sextortion scheme. He's among many parents celebrating the rulings against Meta One Tech Tip: Don't use rice for your device. Here's how to dry out your smartphone Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES Pull up to the window, please, for a glimpse of an American icon: The drive-thru How clocks, calendars and time zones came to be How to test your lawn for grubs and what to do if you find them Religion TOP STORIES Europe's tallest statue of the Virgin Mary is inaugurated in a small Polish village Israel’s Christians rely on faith and allies as they fear rising harassment A look at the history and beliefs behind Japan’s controversial shrine to the war dead Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español Política de EEUU Deportes SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES Terremoto frente a Indonesia deja al menos 47 muertos y edificios derrumbados Mientras el Talibán cumple 5 años en el poder en Afganistán, la ONU alerta de crisis de derechos Fans de Bonnie Tyler llenan las calles de pueblo galés para su funeral Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct SECTIONS ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog Copyright 2026 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Menu World SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Top US commander visits aircraft carrier, Gaza talks in Egypt and other Mideast news Athens is cleaning its all-marble Olympic stadium for the first time in more than a century Ukraine launches one of its largest aerial attacks of the war, killing at least 6 people in Russia Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES Teen boy among 6 dead including suspect in Michigan shootings; girl survived Indiana authorities say at least 5 people have died as severe weather crosses the state Miami to decide fate of stunning stadium where speedboats raced and Jimmy Buffett played Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES Republicans won the redistricting competition. Don't tell that to this California congressman Democrats disagree over abolishing or reforming ICE at DNC meeting Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NFL College football MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Golf TOP STORIES Tommy John, namesake for a pioneering elbow surgery that saved his career, dead at 83 Michael Phelps returns poolside with his sons as 8-year-old Beckett eyes swimming Joshua Báez of the Cardinals hits 3 homers in his first 3 at-bats in a historic major league debut Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES Box Office: ‘Spider-Man’ stays on top while two dino movies battle for third Fans de Bonnie Tyler llenan las calles de pueblo galés para su funeral Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Berkshire Hathaway boosted stake in Alphabet, homebuilders in the second quarter Science Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities TOP STORIES Capybaras keep their chill while crashing Brazilian legislature A humpback whale briefly swallows kayaker in Chilean Patagonia — and it's all captured on camera Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Ghana's fantasy coffins are a colorful celebration of life and legacy A driver faces up to $110,000 in fines for speeding on a Swiss street. But he can afford it Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year Be Well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES Bedbugs can cause people to lose sleep — and blood. Here's what to do about them Challenging your brain helps keep it healthy. Here's how to do it Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Photography SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES Diving into the blue sky, watched by the Eiffel Tower AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 How a photographer centered one woman amid the destruction of a Spokane wildfire Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Peru steps up fight against illegal gold mining as activity enters protected Amazon reserve The warming climate is forcing marathons to consider changes to keep runners cool Oppressive heat, high humidity grip much of the US as students start a new school year Health TOP STORIES Obesity drugs show early promise against the hormonal disorder PMOS, giving a suffering family hope Bedbugs can cause people to lose sleep — and blood. Here's what to do about them Trump signs order calling for spacing out childhood vaccines, against medical groups' guidance Challenging your brain helps keep it healthy. Here's how to do it Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Trump's vaccine plan would require millions of individual shots last used decades ago Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Jury finds Instagram and YouTube liable in a landmark social media addiction trial His son died after a sextortion scheme. He's among many parents celebrating the rulings against Meta One Tech Tip: Don't use rice for your device. Here's how to dry out your smartphone Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES Pull up to the window, please, for a glimpse of an American icon: The drive-thru How clocks, calendars and time zones came to be How to test your lawn for grubs and what to do if you find them Religion TOP STORIES Europe's tallest statue of the Virgin Mary is inaugurated in a small Polish village Israel’s Christians rely on faith and allies as they fear rising harassment A look at the history and beliefs behind Japan’s controversial shrine to the war dead Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES Terremoto frente a Indonesia deja al menos 47 muertos y edificios derrumbados Mientras el Talibán cumple 5 años en el poder en Afganistán, la ONU alerta de crisis de derechos Fans de Bonnie Tyler llenan las calles de pueblo galés para su funeral Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct MORE World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls Sports NFL College football MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well Photography Photo Essays AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets Religion Español Política de EEUU Deportes Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East SECTIONS Iran war Russia-Ukraine war Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Top US commander visits aircraft carrier, Gaza talks in Egypt and other Mideast news Athens is cleaning its all-marble Olympic stadium for the first time in more than a century Ukraine launches one of its largest aerial attacks of the war, killing at least 6 people in Russia Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths America at 250 TOP STORIES Teen boy among 6 dead including suspect in Michigan shootings; girl survived Indiana authorities say at least 5 people have died as severe weather crosses the state Miami to decide fate of stunning stadium where speedboats raced and Jimmy Buffett played Newsletters The Afternoon Wire Our personalization engine sends you what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Weekly News Quiz Politics 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls SECTIONS 2026 Elections Election Results Election calendar White House Congress Supreme Court The latest AP-NORC polls TOP STORIES Republicans won the redistricting competition. Don't tell that to this California congressman Democrats disagree over abolishing or reforming ICE at DNC meeting Newsletters Ground Game Your guide to the biggest stories in politics, policy and U.S. elections. See All Newsletters Sports NFL College football MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Tennis Golf Auto Racing SECTIONS NFL College football MLB NBA WNBA Soccer Tennis Golf TOP STORIES Tommy John, namesake for a pioneering elbow surgery that saved his career, dead at 83 Michael Phelps returns poolside with his sons as 8-year-old Beckett eyes swimming Joshua Báez of the Cardinals hits 3 homers in his first 3 at-bats in a historic major league debut Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Get AP’s in-depth sports reporting tailored to your interests. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books SECTIONS Movies Fashion Television Celebrity Interviews Music Books TOP STORIES Box Office: ‘Spider-Man’ stays on top while two dino movies battle for third Fans de Bonnie Tyler llenan las calles de pueblo galés para su funeral Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire AP’s entertainment, media, fashion and culture coverage, personalized to your interests. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES Berkshire Hathaway boosted stake in Alphabet, homebuilders in the second quarter Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Newsletters Quizzes Games Fact Check Oddities TOP STORIES Capybaras keep their chill while crashing Brazilian legislature A humpback whale briefly swallows kayaker in Chilean Patagonia — and it's all captured on camera Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals Ghana's fantasy coffins are a colorful celebration of life and legacy A driver faces up to $110,000 in fines for speeding on a Swiss street. But he can afford it Why a Minneapolis neighborhood sharpens a giant pencil every year Be Well Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well SECTIONS Trending Better health At home Working well For the climate Eating well TOP STORIES Bedbugs can cause people to lose sleep — and blood. Here's what to do about them Challenging your brain helps keep it healthy. Here's how to do it Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Photography Photo Essays SECTIONS Photo Essays TOP STORIES Diving into the blue sky, watched by the Eiffel Tower AP Top Photos of the Month, September 2024 How a photographer centered one woman amid the destruction of a Spokane wildfire Newsletters The World in Pictures Get special access to AP's most compelling images from our global team of photojournalists. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Peru steps up fight against illegal gold mining as activity enters protected Amazon reserve The warming climate is forcing marathons to consider changes to keep runners cool Oppressive heat, high humidity grip much of the US as students start a new school year Health TOP STORIES Obesity drugs show early promise against the hormonal disorder PMOS, giving a suffering family hope Bedbugs can cause people to lose sleep — and blood. Here's what to do about them Trump signs order calling for spacing out childhood vaccines, against medical groups' guidance Challenging your brain helps keep it healthy. Here's how to do it Being a night owl may not be great for your heart but you can do something about it Trump's vaccine plan would require millions of individual shots last used decades ago Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Jury finds Instagram and YouTube liable in a landmark social media addiction trial His son died after a sextortion scheme. He's among many parents celebrating the rulings against Meta One Tech Tip: Don't use rice for your device. Here's how to dry out your smartphone Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Fashion Homes Travel Pets TOP STORIES Pull up to the window, please, for a glimpse of an American icon: The drive-thru How clocks, calendars and time zones came to be How to test your lawn for grubs and what to do if you find them Religion TOP STORIES Europe's tallest statue of the Virgin Mary is inaugurated in a small Polish village Israel’s Christians rely on faith and allies as they fear rising harassment A look at the history and beliefs behind Japan’s controversial shrine to the war dead Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español Política de EEUU Deportes SECTIONS Política de EEUU Deportes TOP STORIES Terremoto frente a Indonesia deja al menos 47 muertos y edificios derrumbados Mientras el Talibán cumple 5 años en el poder en Afganistán, la ONU alerta de crisis de derechos Fans de Bonnie Tyler llenan las calles de pueblo galés para su funeral Most watched videos Standards Press Releases My Account AP News Code of Conduct The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct SECTIONS ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog Copyright 2026 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. U.S. News Pete McCloskey, GOP congressman who once challenged Nixon, dies at 96 Pete McCloskey, GOP congressman who once challenged Nixon, dies at 96 1 of 4 | FILE - Republican presidential candidate Ronald Reagan, left, admires the bumper sticker on the car of Congressman Pete McCloskey as the congressman looks on, right, in San Jose, Calif., Sept. 25, 1980. Reagan was in the area on a campaign trip prior to leaving for more campaigning in Washington and Oregon. Former California Congressman McCloskey, who ran as a Republican challenging President Richard Nixon in 1972, has died Wednesday, May 8, 2024, at age 96. (AP Photo/Harrity, File) Read More 2 of 4 | FILE - Representative Paul “Pete” McCloskey, of the 12 Congressional district, presents his mother, Vera, 84, with a corsage at a victory celebration in his honor after he defeated David Harris, a Democrat, Nov. 3, 1976, in Palo Alto, Calif. Former Congressman McCloskey, who ran as a Republican challenging President Richard Nixon in 1972, has died Wednesday, May 8, 2024, at age 96. (AP Photo/John Storey, File) Read More 3 of 4 | FILE - Former Republican U.S. Rep. Pete McCloskey, right, speaks in support of a measure by Assemblywoman Loni Hancock, D-Berkeley, left, that would authorize public financing to pay for state election campaigns, Tuesday, April 17, 2007, at a Capitol news conference in Sacramento, Calif. Former Congressman McCloskey, who ran as a Republican challenging President Richard Nixon in 1972, has died Wednesday, May 8, 2024, at age 96. (AP Photo/Rich Pedroncelli, File) Read More 4 of 4 | FILE - Republican primary challenger for Rep. Richard Pombo’s seat, former Rep. Pete McCloskey, is shown at his law office in Redwood City, Calif., March 16, 2006. Former California Congressman McCloskey, who ran as a Republican challenging President Richard Nixon in 1972, has died Wednesday, May 8, 2024, at age 96. McCloskey was a pro-environment, anti-war lawmaker who co-authored the federal Endangered Species Act and co-founded Earth Day. (AP Photo/Jeff Chiu, File) Read More Add AP News on Google Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google. Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit FRESNO, Calif. (AP) — Pete McCloskey — a pro-environment, anti-war California Republican who co-wrote the Endangered Species Act and co-founded Earth Day — has died. He was 96. A fourth-generation Republican “in the mold of Teddy Roosevelt,” he often said, McCloskey represented the 12th Congressional District for 15 years, running for president against an incumbent Richard Nixon in 1972. He battled party leaders while serving seven terms in Congress and went on to publicly disavow the GOP in his later years. He died at home Wednesday, according to Lee Houskeeper, a family friend. Years after leaving Washington, McCloskey made one last bid for elective office in 2006 when he challenged Richard Pombo of Northern California’s 11th District in a primary race that McCloskey described as “a battle for the soul of the Republican Party.” After losing to Pombo, who had spent most of his tenure in Washington attempting to undo the Endangered Species Act, he threw his support behind Democrat Jerry McNerney, the eventual winner. “It was foolish to run against him (Pombo), but we didn’t have anybody else to do it, and I could not stand what a------ they’d become,” the frank-talking former Marine colonel said of the modern GOP in a 2008 interview with The Associated Press. McCloskey cited disillusionment from influence peddling and ethics scandals under the George W. Bush administration as reasons why he switched parties in 2007 at the age of 79. “A pox on them and their values,” he wrote in an open letter explaining the switch to his supporters. “McCloskey was a rarity in American politics — his actions were guided by his sense of justice, not by political ideology,” Joe Cotchett, his law partner since 2004, said in a statement. “He hated inequity and did not hesitate to take on members of his own political party.” Read More Born in Loma Linda, California, on Sept. 29, 1927, as Paul Norton McCloskey Jr., he graduated from South Pasadena High School, where the second baseman made the school’s baseball hall of fame, although he self-deprecatingly called himself “perhaps the worst player on the baseball team.” McCloskey joined the Marine Corps as an officer and led a rifle platoon during some of the most intense fighting of the Korean War. He was awarded the Navy Cross for extraordinary heroism, the nation’s second-highest honor, a Silver Star for bravery in combat and two Purple Hearts. He earned a law degree from Stanford University and founded an environmental law firm in Palo Alto before making the move to public office. In 1967, he defeated fellow Republican Shirley Temple Black and Democrat Roy Archibald in a special election for the San Mateo County congressional seat. Sign up for Morning Wire: Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Email address Sign up By checking this box, you agree to AP's Terms of Use and acknowledge that AP may collect and use your data pursuant to our Privacy Policy . The left-leaning McCloskey had a thundering presence in Washington, attempting to get onto the floor of the 1972 Republican National Convention during his bid to unseat then-President Nixon on an anti-Vietnam War platform. He ultimately was blocked by a rule written by his friend and law school debate partner, John Ehrlichman, that said a candidate could not get to the floor with fewer than 25 delegates. McCloskey had one. Still, McCloskey loved to say he finished second. He would later visit Ehrlichman in prison, where Nixon’s former counsel served 1.5 years for conspiracy, perjury and obstruction of justice in the Watergate break-in that led to the president’s resignation. While in office, McCloskey also was known for befriending Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat and criticized Israeli influence on American politics. The congressman was the first to demand Nixon’s impeachment, and the first to demand a repeal of the Gulf of Tonkin resolution that allowed the Vietnam War. But his enduring legacy is the Endangered Species Act , which protects species designated as endangered or threatened and conserves the ecosystems on which they depend. McCloskey co-wrote the legislation in 1973, after a campaign by young people empowered by Earth Day activities successfully unseated seven of 12 Congress members known as “The Dirty Dozen” for their anti-environment votes. “On that day, the world changed,” McCloskey recalled in 2008. “Suddenly, everybody was an environmentalist. My Republican colleagues started asking me for copies of old speeches I had given on water and air quality.” “A powerful champion of endangered species, Pete, ironically, became one,” said Denis Hayes, co-organizer of the Earth Day, about the rarity of a “green, anti-war Republican.” After 15 years in the House, he lost his run for a Senate seat to Republican Pete Wilson, who went on to be California’s governor. He moved back to rural Yolo County, relishing the life of a farmer and part-time attorney. “You know, if people call you ‘congressman’ all the time, you’ll end up thinking you’re smarter than you are,” he said. McCloskey, however, couldn’t stay quiet forever. In 2006, after his unsuccessful race against Pombo, he helped form the Revolt of the Elders Coalition, a group of retired Republican congressmen who pushed to get soldiers more money for college, undo measures that made it tougher to investigate ethics violations and rallied against those who had received funding from disgraced lobbyist Jack Abramoff, including Pombo. “If you can do something at age 80 that positively affects our country, you should be proud of it. Otherwise there’s no redeeming value in getting older,” he said. McCloskey is survived by his wife, Helen — his longtime press secretary whom he married in 1978 — and four children by his first wife: Nancy, Peter, John and Kathleen. ____ This story contains biographical information compiled by former AP writer Tracie Cone. Most read US pulls last aircraft carrier in Asia as Trump focuses on Iran and the Western Hemisphere 5 MIN READ 646 Top US commander visits aircraft carrier, Gaza talks in Egypt and other Mideast news 4 MIN READ 332 Police have arrested a 19-year-old in connection with Virginia State University shooting 2 MIN READ 566 Hurricane Lala skirts Hawaii’s Big Island without making landfall as heavy wind, rain lash region 3 MIN READ 19 The buck stops somewhere else: A look at Trump’s tendency to avoid blame when things go awry 6 MIN READ 1113 The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct From AP News About Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook AP News Code of Conduct SECTIONS ap.org Careers Advertise with us AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog Copyright 2026 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. twitter instagram facebook