Kenneth Rush - People - Department History - Office of the Historian Menu Menu Home Historical Documents Foreign Relations of the United States About the Foreign Relations Series Status of the Foreign Relations Series History of the Foreign Relations Series Ebooks Initiative Quarterly Releases Department History Overview Biographies of the Secretaries of State Principal Officers and Chiefs of Mission Travels of the Secretary of State Travels of the President Visits by Foreign Heads of State World War I and the Department Buildings of the Department of State U.S. Diplomatic Couriers U.S. Marine Corps Guide to Countries Guide to Country Recognition and Relations World Wide Diplomatic Archives Index More Resources Browse Resources by Subject Tag Conferences Contact Us Developer Resources & APIs Educational Resources Frequently Asked Questions Key Milestones Open Government Initiative A Short History of the Department About Us Kenneth Rush - People - Department History Home Department History People Kenneth Rush Kenneth Rush (1910–1994) NOTE TO READERS Updates to the Principal Officers and Chiefs of Mission database are currently suspended. For information about the Department’s current and recent leadership, we recommend visiting the Department of State homepage’s Biographies of Senior Officials and List of U.S. Ambassadors . Notice posted on January 12, 2024. Last updated March 14, 2024. Non-career appointee State of Residence: New York Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary (Germany) Appointed: July 8, 1969 Presentation of Credentials: July 22, 1969 Termination of Mission: Left post on February 20, 1972 Commissioned to the Federal Republic of Germany. Deputy Secretary of State Appointed: February 2, 1973 Entry on Duty: February 2, 1973 Termination of Appointment: May 29, 1974 Secretary of State ad interim Appointed: September 3, 1973 Termination of Appointment: September 22, 1973 Deputy Secretary of State; Acting Secretary of State Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary (France) Appointed: September 19, 1974 Presentation of Credentials: November 21, 1974 Termination of Mission: Left post on March 14, 1977 Department History Buildings of the Department Biographies of the Secretaries of State Principal Officers and Chiefs of Mission Travels of the President Travels of the Secretary Visits by Foreign Leaders The U.S. Marine Corps and the Department World War I and the Department U.S. Diplomatic Couriers Learn more Home Search FAQ Topics Historical Documents Department History Countries Contact About Us Contact Us Policies Accessibility Statement Privacy Policy External Link Policy Copyright Information Content Warning Office of the Historian, Shared Knowledge Services, Bureau of Administration United States Department of State history@state.gov Report an issue on this page