21st Annual Grammy Awards 1979 | Grammy Recording Academy Recording Academy MusiCares Latin Recording Academy Latin Grammy Cultural Foundation Grammy Museum Instagram Facebook TikTok X YouTube Recognize 68th Annual Grammy Awards Awards History Award Categories Awards Process Grammy 101 Rules & Guidelines Genres Advance Grammy U Grammy Museum Education Online Learning Protect Issues & Policy Take Action Support Get Help Learn More Donate Membership How To Join Member Login Chapters Governance Producers & Engineers Wing Songwriters & Composers Wing Grammy U DEI Member Login Subscribe 21st Annual Grammy Awards • 1979 Telecast For recordings released between October 1, 1977 – September 30, 1978 Scroll left 2026 2025 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 1997 1996 1995 1994 1993 1992 1991 1990 1989 1988 1987 1986 1985 1984 1983 1982 1981 1980 1979 1978 1977 1976 1975 1974 1973 1972 1971 1970 1969 1968 1967 1966 1965 1964 1963 1962 1961 1960 1959 Scroll right Record Of The Year See all Winner Nominees Just The Way You Are Billy Joel Credits Phil Ramone, producer Baker Street (Single) Gerry Rafferty , Gerry Rafferty Credits Hugh Murphy & Gerry Rafferty, producers Feels So Good (Single) Chuck Mangione , Chuck Mangione Credits Chuck Mangione, producer Stayin' Alive (Single) Bee Gees , Bee Gees Credits Bee Gees (Barry Gibb, Maurice Gibb & Robin Gibb), Albhy Galuten & Karl Richardson, producers You Needed Me (Single) Anne Murray Credits Jim Ed Norman, producer Album Of The Year See all Winner Nominees Saturday Night Fever - Soundtrack Bee Gees , Barry Gibb , Barry Gibb , Maurice Gibb , Maurice Gibb , Robin Gibb , Robin Gibb , Broadway Eddie , Harry Wayne Casey , Harry Wayne Casey , Richard Finch , Richard Finch , Albhy Galuten , K.G. Productions , Ron Kersey , Ralph MacDonald , Arif Mardin , Bobby Martin , Bill Oakes , Freddie Perren , Karl Richardson , William Salter , David Shire , Thomas J. Valentino Credits Bee Gees (Barry Gibb, Maurice Gibb & Robin Gibb), Broadway Eddie, Harry Wayne Casey, Richard Finch, Albhy Galuten, K.G. Productions, Ron Kersey, Ralph MacDonald, Arif Mardin, Bobby Martin, Bill Oakes, Freddie Perren, Karl Richardson, William Salter, David Shire & Thomas J. Valentino, producers Even Now (Album) Barry Manilow , Barry Manilow Credits Ron Dante & Barry Manilow, producers Grease (Original Soundtrack) (Album) John Farrar , Albhy Galuten , Barry Gibb , Karl Richardson Credits John Farrar, Albhy Galuten, Barry Gibb & Karl Richardson, producers Running On Empty (Album) Jackson Browne , Jackson Browne Credits Jackson Browne, producer Some Girls (Album) Rolling Stones Song Of The Year See all Winner Nominees Just The Way You Are Billy Joel Credits Billy Joel, songwriter (Billy Joel) Stayin' Alive Barry Gibb , Maurice Gibb , Robin Gibb Credits Barry Gibb, Maurice Gibb & Robin Gibb, songwriters (Bee Gees) Three Times A Lady (Single) Lionel Richie Credits Lionel Richie, songwriter (Commodores) You Don't Bring Me Flowers Alan Bergman , Marilyn Bergman , Neil Diamond Credits Alan Bergman, Marilyn Bergman & Neil Diamond, songwriters (Barbra Streisand, Neil Diamond) You Needed Me (Single) Randy Goodrum Credits Randy Goodrum, songwriter (Anne Murray) Best New Artist See all Winner Nominees Taste Of Honey Chris Rea Toto Cars Elvis Costello Producer Of The Year, Non-Classical See all Winner Nominees Bee Gees , Albhy Galuten , Karl Richardson Alan Parsons Phil Ramone Peter Asher Quincy Jones Winners Category Winner Title Actions Record Of The Year Billy Joel Just The Way You Are All Nominees Album Of The Year Bee Gees , Barry Gibb , Maurice Gibb , Robin Gibb , Broadway Eddie , Harry Wayne Casey , Richard Finch , Albhy Galuten , K.G. Productions , Ron Kersey , Ralph MacDonald , Arif Mardin , Bobby Martin , Bill Oakes , Freddie Perren , Karl Richardson , William Salter , David Shire , Thomas J. Valentino Saturday Night Fever - Soundtrack All Nominees Song Of The Year Billy Joel Just The Way You Are All Nominees Best New Artist Taste Of Honey All Nominees Female Pop Vocal Performance Anne Murray You Needed Me All Nominees Male Pop Vocal Performance Barry Manilow Copacabana (At The Copa) All Nominees Pop Performance By A Duo Or Group With Vocals Bee Gees Saturday Night Fever All Nominees Pop Instrumental Performance Chuck Mangione Children Of Sanchez All Nominees Female R&B Vocal Performance Donna Summer Last Dance All Nominees Male R&B Vocal Performance George Benson On Broadway All Nominees R&B Performance By A Duo Or Group With Vocals Earth, Wind & Fire All 'n All All Nominees Best R&B Instrumental Performance Earth, Wind & Fire Runnin' All Nominees Best R&B Song Paul Jabara Last Dance All Nominees Female Country Vocal Performance Dolly Parton Here You Come Again All Nominees Male Country Vocal Performance Willie Nelson Georgia On My Mind All Nominees Country Performance By A Duo Or Group With Vocals Waylon Jennings , Willie Nelson Mamas Don't Let Your Babies Grow Up To Be Cowboys All Nominees Country Instrumental Performance Asleep At The Wheel One O'Clock Jump All Nominees Best Country Song Don Schlitz The Gambler All Nominees Best Jazz Vocal Album Al Jarreau All Fly Home All Nominees Best Jazz Performance Oscar Peterson Montreaux '77 - Oscar Peterson Jam All Nominees Best Jazz Instrumental Album Chick Corea Friends All Nominees Best Large Jazz Ensemble Album Thad Jones , Mel Lewis Live In Munich All Nominees Best Inspirational Performance B.J. Thomas Happy Man All Nominees Best Gospel Performance, Contemporary Larry Hart What A Friend All Nominees Best Gospel Performance, Traditional Happy Goodman Family Refreshing All Nominees Traditional Gospel Album Mighty Clouds of Joy Live And Direct All Nominees Contemporary R&B Gospel Album Andrae Crouch Live In London All Nominees Best Latin Recording Tito Puente Homenaje a Beny More All Nominees Traditional Folk Album Muddy Waters I'm Ready All Nominees Best Album For Children (The Muppets) The Muppet Show All Nominees Best Audio Book, Narration, and Storytelling Recording Orson Welles Citizen Kane All Nominees Best Comedy Album Steve Martin A Wild And Crazy Guy All Nominees Best Musical Theater Album Thomas Z. Shepard Ain't Misbehavin' All Nominees Best Score Soundtrack For Visual Media (Includes Film And Television) John Williams Close Encounters Of The Third Kind All Nominees Best Instrumental Composition John Williams Theme From Close Encounters Of The Third Kind All Nominees Best Arrangement, Instrumental Or A Cappella Robert Freedman , Quincy Jones The Wiz Main Title - Overture Part One All Nominees Best Arrangement, Instruments And Vocals Maurice White Got To Get You Into My Life All Nominees Best Vocal Arrangement For Two Or More Voices Bee Gees Stayin' Alive All Nominees Best Recording Package Tony Lane , Johnny B. Lee Boys In The Trees All Nominees Best Album Notes Michael Brooks A Bing Crosby Collection, Vols. I & II All Nominees Best Historical Album Lester Young The Lester Young Story, Vol. 3 All Nominees Best Engineered Album, Non-Classical Roger Nichols , Al Schmitt FM (No Static At All) All Nominees Producer Of The Year, Non-Classical Bee Gees , Albhy Galuten , Karl Richardson All Nominees Best Engineered Album, Classical Edward (Bud) T. Graham , Arthur Kendy , Ray Moore Varese: Ameriques/Arcana/Ionisation (Boulez Conducts Varese) All Nominees Classical Album Carlo Maria Giulini , Itzhak Perlman , Christopher Bishop Brahms: Concerto For Violin In D All Nominees Best Orchestral Performance Herbert von Karajan Beethoven: Symphonies (9) (Complete) All Nominees Best Opera Recording Julius Rudel , John Coveney , George Sponhaltz Lehar: The Merry Widow All Nominees Best Choral Performance Georg Solti Beethoven: Missa Solemnis All Nominees Instrumental Soloist(s) Performance (with Orchestr Vladimir Horowitz Rachmaninoff: Con. No. 3 In D Minor For Piano (Horowitz Golden Jubilee) All Nominees Instrumental Soloist Performance (without Orchestr Vladimir Horowitz The Horowitz Concerts 1977/78 All Nominees Chamber Music Performance Vladimir Ashkenazy , Itzhak Perlman Beethoven: Sonatas For Violin And Piano All Nominees Best Classical Solo Vocal Album Luciano Pavarotti Luciano Pavarotti - Hits From Lincoln Center All Nominees Show More Awards Recap “I look out here at all the members of The Recording Academy and I see a lot of silks and satins and jewelry and new hair styles — and gee, the ladies look fantastic too,” host John Denver (wearing a tux with bell-bottomed pants) said with a smile at the start of the 21st Annual GRAMMY Awards show, the last ceremony held in the ’70s. Indeed, the music industry really was growing up in a number of fascinating ways. “Twenty-One is a very special age,” Denver noted. “Twenty-One is when you come of age.” Among those coming along for the ride on this GRAMMY night were winners from A Taste Of Honey of “Boogie Oogie Oogie” fame — who won Best New Artist beating out the likes of Elvis Costello, the Cars, Chris Rea and Toto too — to legendary pianist Vladimir Horowitz who received two classical awards. Where else in the world besides on the GRAMMYs would Johnny “Take This Job And Shove It” Paycheck and the great tenor Jan Peerce be found next to each other on the bill? Disco had very much come of age as GRAMMY 21 intermittently turned into Studio 54. The entrenchment of disco by 1978 had become a cultural phenomenon. Manhattan’s Studio 54 was the most high-profile nightspot in the country; Saturday Night Fever took the nation’s theaters by storm; and artists of all stripes — including such venerable rock acts as the Rolling Stones and Rod Stewart — were recording disco and releasing 12" club mixes. Disco colored the fashions (all those satins and silks Denver referred to in his opening remarks) and sense of the times, and led to Denver awkwardly (though endearingly) appropriating John Travolta’s Fever dance moves for his performance of the Bee Gees ' “Stayin’ Alive” during a tribute to the year’s Song Of The Year nominees. Perhaps not surprisingly, the Album Of The Year GRAMMY was bestowed upon the smash hit Saturday Night Fever soundtrack. The first performance of the night was the glitzy ode to the disco lifestyle “I Love The Nightlife” by Alicia Bridges. Dionne Warwick and Quincy Jones presented the GRAMMY award for Best R&B Vocal Performance, Female, to Donna Summer — who faced considerable competition from nominees such as Aretha Franklin, Natalie Cole, Chaka Khan and Bridges herself — for “Last Dance.” In the midst of the discothon, the GRAMMYs managed to do what it always does best — highlight all kinds of music, including Chuck Mangione’s flugelhorn hit “Feels So Good,” and a rousing number by Oscar Peterson, winner of Best Jazz Instrumental Performance, Soloist ( Montreaux ’77 — Oscar Peterson Jam ). In addition to Johnny Paycheck’s biting state of the working man performance, country music was well represented by presenters who spoke their minds. Before announcing that his future fellow Highwayman Willie Nelson had won the GRAMMY for Best Country Vocal Performance, Male (“Georgia On My Mind”) Kris Kristofferson, with wife Rita Coolidge at his side, told the crowd, “I think there ought to be a special award given every year to George Jones and Jerry Lee Lewis just for being who they are.” Glen Campbell and then flame Tanya Tucker did a very special picking and singing presentation of the award for Best Country Vocal Performance By A Duo Or Group that became a little more special when it turned out that neither of the beloved country outlaws Waylon Jennings or Willie Nelson were there to pick up the award for the now-iconic “Mamas Don’t Let Your Babies Grow Up To Be Cowboys.” “Well, as most of you know, Waylon and Willie wouldn’t walk a mile to see a pissant eat a bale of hay, but we congratulate them anyway and accept it on their behalf.” And perhaps in a moment of nostalgia for some old-fashioned rock, The Academy recognized Steely Dan’s “FM (No Static At All)” — from the movie celebrating the age of free-form radio — with a Best Engineered Recording, Non-Classical, for Roger Nichols and Al Schmitt. Another of the evening’s big winners was also not in attendance — Billy Joel , who won both Record Of The Year for “Just The Way You Are” along with his producer Phil Ramone, and Song Of The Year for the same classic romantic ballad. Barry Manilow definitely was there to pick up his only GRAMMY to date for Best Pop Vocal Performance, Male, for “Copacabana (At The Copa).” And if the experience wasn’t memorable enough, Manilow received his award from Steve Martin — winner of the Best Comedy Recording for A Wild And Crazy Guy — who took the stage in a tux with no pants, which were later handed to him in dry-cleaner wrapping. Martin went on to offer his own memorable thanks, including a shout out to his own manager “who has believed in me ever since the first album started selling.” The most inspiring performer of the night, however, may have been 96-year-old Eubie Blake, who would arguably have been named Best New Artist of 1921 had there been a GRAMMY Awards then. Blake performed his classic “I’m Just Wild About Harry” with dancing girls several generations his junior, and then presented the Best New Artist award with Denver. “Boy,” Blake said with a youthful smile on his face, “I’m having the time of my life up here.” Show More The Grammys are more than just Awards Advancement Empowering music makers through their creative journeys Learn More Music Advocacy Defending creators’ rights while shaping a future of responsible innovation Get Involved Ready to Reach Out? We’re Ready to Listen. MusiCares helps music people find healing, hope, and stability in times of need. Get Help Now Artists Artists News Videos Award Ceremonies Award Categories Award Fields Filter Recording Academy About Press Room Careers DEI Dream Network Grammys Awards History Awards Process Award Categories News Videos Membership Who We Are How To Join Member Login Chapters Governance Producers & Engineers Wing Songwriters & Composers Wing Grammy U MusiCares About Get Help Donate News Programs & Services Person Of The Year Advocacy Home Issues & Policy Take Action Latin Grammys How To Join Member Login Awards News Videos Press Cultural Foundation Grammy Museum Museum Tickets Exhibits Education Support Programs Donate Socials Instagram Facebook TikTok X YouTube Legal Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Copyright Notice © 2026 Grammy. All rights reserved. Some of the content on this site expresses viewpoints and opinions that are not those of the Recording Academy and its Affiliates. Responsibility for the accuracy of information provided in stories not written by or specifically prepared for the Academy and its Affiliates lies with the story's original source or writer. Content on this site does not reflect an endorsement or recommendation of any artist or music by the Recording Academy and its Affiliates. Your Privacy Choices Post Post Filter Sign Up For The Gramophone All the latest news and conversation about the craft, culture, business, and creators powering the music industry. Socials Instagram Facebook TikTok X YouTube By clicking Subscribe, you agree to the Recording Academy's Terms and Privacy Policy . First name Last name Email Sign up By clicking Subscribe, you agree to the Recording Academy's Terms and Privacy Policy .