Henry A. (Heinz Alfred) Kissinger - People - Department History - Office of the Historian Menu Menu Home Historical Documents Foreign Relations of the United States About the Foreign Relations Series Status of the Foreign Relations Series History of the Foreign Relations Series Ebooks Initiative Quarterly Releases Department History Overview Biographies of the Secretaries of State Principal Officers and Chiefs of Mission Travels of the Secretary of State Travels of the President Visits by Foreign Heads of State World War I and the Department Buildings of the Department of State U.S. Diplomatic Couriers U.S. Marine Corps Guide to Countries Guide to Country Recognition and Relations World Wide Diplomatic Archives Index More Resources Browse Resources by Subject Tag Conferences Contact Us Developer Resources & APIs Educational Resources Frequently Asked Questions Key Milestones Open Government Initiative A Short History of the Department About Us Henry A. (Heinz Alfred) Kissinger - People - Department History Home Department History People Henry A. (Heinz Alfred) Kissinger Biographies of the Secretaries of State: Henry A. (Heinz Alfred) Kissinger (1923–2023) Introduction Henry Alfred Kissinger was appointed Secretary of State on September 21 by President Richard M. Nixon and served in the position from September 23, 1973 to January 20, 1977. With his appointment, he became the first person ever to serve as both Secretary of State and National Security Adviser, a position he had held since President Nixon was sworn into office on January 20, 1969. However, on November 3, 1975, President Gerald R. Ford removed him from his National Security Adviser position while keeping him as Secretary of State. Henry A. Kissinger, 56th Secretary of State Rise to Prominence Kissinger was born as Heinz Alfred Kissinger in Germany. After the Nazis seized power, state sanctioned anti-Semitism made life for the Kissinger family, which was Jewish, very difficult. In 1938, Kissinger’s family immigrated to the United States and settled in New York, and Kissinger’s name was changed to Henry. During World War II, Kissinger became a naturalized citizen and served in the U.S. Army as a German interpreter. After the war, he attended Harvard University, earning a B.A. in 1950 and a Ph.D. in 1954. He stayed at Harvard to join the faculty and in 1957 he became the Associate Director of Harvard’s Department of Government and Center for International Affairs. Throughout the 1950s and 1960s, he served as a consultant to several government agencies, including the National Security Council’s Operations Coordinating Board, the Department of State, the Operations Research Office, and the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency. In 1968, President-elect Richard Nixon chose Kissinger to be his National Security Adviser. After working closely with Nixon during his first presidential term, Nixon decided to make an unprecedented move by appointing Kissinger as his new Secretary of State while also keeping him in the role of National Security adviser. Influence on American Diplomacy Kissinger entered the State Department just two weeks before Egypt and Syria launched a surprise attack on Israel. The October War of 1973 played a major role in shaping Kissinger’s tenure as Secretary. First, he worked to ensure Israel received an airlift of U.S. military supplies. This airlift helped Israel turn the war in Israel’s favor, and it also led members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to initiate an oil embargo against the United States. After the implementation of a United Nation’s sponsored ceasefire, Kissinger began a series of “shuttle diplomacy” missions, in which he traveled between various Middle East capitals to reach disengagement agreements between the enemy combatants. These efforts produced an agreement in January 1974 between Egypt and Israel and in May 1974 between Syria and Israel. Additionally, Kissinger’s efforts contributed to OPEC’s decision to lift the embargo. On August 9, 1974, the Watergate scandal compelled President Nixon to resign, but Kissinger stayed on in his dual roles under President Gerald Ford. Kissinger helped Ford acclimate to the international scene and both men worked to continue policies implemented by Nixon and Kissinger previously, including détente with the Soviet Union, establishing relations with the People’s Republic of China, and negotiations in the Middle East. Kissinger also played a major role in the negotiations leading to the August 1975 Helsinki Accord, an agreement signed by 35 countries and addressing many issues that promised to improve relations between East and West. In September 1975, Kissinger helped conclude a second disengagement agreement between Egypt and Israel that moved both countries closer to a peace agreement. Kissinger’s tenure as Secretary comprised many controversial issues, including his role in influencing U.S. policies towards countries such as Chile and Angola. Additionally, he engaged in new international issues such as law of the sea, which became more prominent for U.S. foreign policy in the decades ahead. From Principal Officers and Chiefs of Mission Born 1923 Died 2023 Non-career appointee State of Residence: District of Columbia Secretary of State Appointed: September 21, 1973 Entry on Duty: September 22, 1973 Termination of Appointment: January 20, 1977 Served concurrently as Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs until Nov 3, 1975. Department History Buildings of the Department Biographies of the Secretaries of State Principal Officers and Chiefs of Mission Travels of the President Travels of the Secretary Visits by Foreign Leaders The U.S. Marine Corps and the Department World War I and the Department U.S. Diplomatic Couriers Learn more Home Search FAQ Topics Historical Documents Department History Countries Contact About Us Contact Us Policies Accessibility Statement Privacy Policy External Link Policy Copyright Information Content Warning Office of the Historian, Shared Knowledge Services, Bureau of Administration United States Department of State history@state.gov Report an issue on this page