David Matthew Kennedy - People - Department History - Office of the Historian Menu Menu Home Historical Documents Foreign Relations of the United States About the Foreign Relations Series Status of the Foreign Relations Series History of the Foreign Relations Series Ebooks Initiative Quarterly Releases Department History Overview Biographies of the Secretaries of State Principal Officers and Chiefs of Mission Travels of the Secretary of State Travels of the President Visits by Foreign Heads of State World War I and the Department Buildings of the Department of State U.S. Diplomatic Couriers U.S. Marine Corps Guide to Countries Guide to Country Recognition and Relations World Wide Diplomatic Archives Index More Resources Browse Resources by Subject Tag Conferences Contact Us Developer Resources & APIs Educational Resources Frequently Asked Questions Key Milestones Open Government Initiative A Short History of the Department About Us David Matthew Kennedy - People - Department History Home Department History People David Matthew Kennedy David Matthew Kennedy (1905–1996) NOTE TO READERS Updates to the Principal Officers and Chiefs of Mission database are currently suspended. For information about the Department’s current and recent leadership, we recommend visiting the Department of State homepage’s Biographies of Senior Officials and List of U.S. Ambassadors . Notice posted on January 12, 2024. Last updated March 14, 2024. Non-career appointee State of Residence: Illinois Ambassador at Large Appointed: February 11, 1971 Entry on Duty: February 11, 1971 Termination of Appointment: March 8, 1973 Commissioned as Ambassador at Large for Foreign Economic Policy Development; later commissioned to serve concurrently as U.S. Permanent Representative to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. U.S. Permanent Representative on the Council of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Appointed: March 17, 1972 Termination of Mission: February 1, 1973 Continued to serve also as Ambassador at Large. Department History Buildings of the Department Biographies of the Secretaries of State Principal Officers and Chiefs of Mission Travels of the President Travels of the Secretary Visits by Foreign Leaders The U.S. Marine Corps and the Department World War I and the Department U.S. Diplomatic Couriers Learn more Home Search FAQ Topics Historical Documents Department History Countries Contact About Us Contact Us Policies Accessibility Statement Privacy Policy External Link Policy Copyright Information Content Warning Office of the Historian, Shared Knowledge Services, Bureau of Administration United States Department of State history@state.gov Report an issue on this page